---
title: ♪ Yamaha Reface
description: Configs
categories:
 - DTA
tags:
- Audio
- Music

permalink: /reface/
---

[Music](/music/)  
[Synth](/synth/)
[KeyStep](/keystep/)



# MIDI
### Key Mapping

|Type | Channel | for switches |  
|-|-|-|
Type | 80 | 0-21: Rd I; 22-42: Rd II; 43-64: Wr; 65-85: Clv; 86-106: Toy; 107-127: CP
Drive | 81
Tremolo/wah switch| 17 |	0-42: off; 43-85: tremolo; 86-127: wah
Tremolo/wah depth| 18
Tremolo/wah rate| 19
Chorus/phaser switch | 85 |0-42: off; 43-85: chorus; 86-127: phaser
Chorus/phaser depth| 86
Chorus/phaser speed| 87
Digital delay/analog delay switch| 88 |0-42: off; 43-85: digital delay; 86-127: analog delay
Digital delay/analog delay depth	| 89
Digital delay/analog delay time| 90
Reverb depth | 91 |
https://pl.yamaha.com/files/download/other_assets/7/794817/reface_en_dl_b0.pdf

### MIDI Transmit channel

1. `A3` (13-th white), `C#4` (11 black), `E4` (17 white) + `ON` - to Advanced mode
2. Hold `C#2` (1-st black), to Transmit channel
2. Hold `D#2` (2-st black), to Rechive channel
  - `C3` - off
  - `D3` - 2 ch
  - `E3` - 4 ch
  - `E4` - 16 ch
3. Do not turn off the instrument until all of the [TYPE] lamps have lit up. Failure to observe this precaution can lead
to data becoming corrupted.


# Firmware
https://usa.yamaha.com/support/updates/reface_cp_updater_win.html
# Manual

https://pl.yamaha.com/pl/products/music_production/synthesizers/reface/downloads.html

# Advanced options
strona 47
https://pl.yamaha.com/files/download/other_assets/6/438816/reface_en_om_b0.pdf


###### RdI
 piano voice from the early 1970s.
dark, heavy sound with sustained
notes.
- with the `phaser` effect- widely used in 70s jazz, R&B, and soul.
- Perfect settings for the pop, soul, and fusion music of the 70s.  You may like to raise the `DRIVE` setting to increase the distortion, to move the `phaser’s DEPTH` setting to a relatively high level between 6 and
7, or to turn on the `tremolo` and move each of the DEPTH and RATE settings to around 5.


###### RdII
piano voice from the late 1970s. Compared with the Rdl, it has a characteristically bright, high-fidelity sound.
- the `chorus` or `phaser` effect and was primarily used in the pop ballads and fusion music of the 80s.
- These wet-sounding settings are ideal for 80s ballads and the like. You could try changing the `chorus` DEPTH and SPEED settings.

###### Wr
Sets a distinctive electric piano voice
that became famous in the late 1960s.
This type of electric piano is notable
for the gentle attack and fast decay of
flat metal reeds. Often combined with
a tremolo effect, it was widely used in
70s pop, R&B, and soul.

Perfect settings for playing 70s pop and the like. You might like to add some short reverberation by
turning on A.DELAY and setting DEPTH to roughly 5 and TIME to roughly 1.5.


###### Clv
Sets the voice of a struck-string type of
electric keyboard that arrived on the
scene in the 1970s. Its electric guitarlike sound is highly distinctive. This
voice works very well with a wah effect
and was primarily used in the funk and
rock music of the 70s


Ideal settings for 70s funk and rock performances. You may like to raise the DRIVE to get a distorted
guitar-like sound. It could also sound good to switch from wah to tremolo and apply a little reverb


###### Toy
Sets the voice of a vintage toy piano
from the 1970s. This setting combines a
bright, undulating tone with the distinctive noisy keyboard of toy pianos.
Although originally developed as a
child’s toy, this type of instrument has
recently found its way into popular
music thanks to its highly unique sound.


###### CP
Sets the voice of the Yamaha CP80
electric grand piano of the late 1970s.
The CP80 was notable for a fast attack
similar to that produced by using compression, and also for its unique harmonic overtones. It works very well
with a chorus effect and was used in
the pop, rock, jazz, and fusion music of
the 80s

These settings are great for 80s pop and the like. The chorus setting is quite light. If necessary, you
could add presence in the high-frequency band by raising the DRIVE setting to around 5. In addition, it
might sound good to turn on D.DELAY and set both DEPTH and TIME to 1.5.

## knobes 

###### TREMOLO
Modulates the volume in a cyclical fashion.
When [TYPE] is set to Rdl, Rdll, or
CP:
The sound will be cyclically panned left
and right in stereo.
When [TYPE] is set to Wr, Clv, or
Toy:
The volume will be cyclically varied up
and down

###### WAH
Modulates the filter cutoff frequency based
on the input volume. This produces a cyclical
change in tone


y-2. [DEPTH] knob
Increases the effect on the sound when turned
clockwise.
 With tremolo
When [TYPE] is set to Rdl, Rdll, or
CP:
Adjusts the degree to which the sound is
modulated left and right.
When [TYPE] is set to Wr, Clv, or
Toy:
Adjusts the degree to which the volume is
modulated.

y-3. [RATE] knob
Increases the effect on the sound when turned
clockwise.
 With tremolo
Adjusts the speed of modulation.
 With wah
Adjusts the resonance offset value. This
changes the character of the modulated
sound.
