---
title: Pipes

categories:
 - DTA
 - HOU
tags:
- CG
- Configs
- Pipelines
- Data
description: Pipelines
permalink: /pipes/
---

[pxl.ink Resolutions](/res/)

# Cache H19 Workflow
- time dependent - add `$F` to name.
- Version add `v1`
- Wedge add `w0`
- is simulated - off can multiple process


-----
- Frame
- Wedges

Using file cache with rop geo TOP. with sequences choose automatic.


# Paths

- All Assets are folders named after Object Container
- Modeling in _geo, then import to other Object

### Paths

|Exports, Cache||
|---|---|
| Export | ```$HIP/`opname("..")`/export/$OS.fbx``` |  
| Cache |```$HIP/`opname("..")`/cache/``` v1/w0/$OS.bgeo.sc  |     
|**Bake**|
| Maps Bake |```$HIP/`opname("..")`/export/bake/${OS}/${OS}_$(CHANNEL).tif``` |   
|**Game**|
|TextureSheet / MorionVector seqence | ```$HIP/`opname("..")`/export/bake/${OS}_sequence/``` |      
|TextureSheet / MorionVector | ```$HIP/`opname("..")`/export/bake/``` |  
|Heightfields | ```$HIP/`opname("..")`/export/heightfields/$OS/``` |
|Vertex Anims ROP |```$HIP/`opname("../..")`/export/vat_$OS``` |       
|Niagara | ``` $HIP/`opname("..")`/export/niagara/$OS.hbjson ``` |
|Impostors| ```$HIP/`opname("..")`/export/${OS}_impostor/sequence/${OS}.$F4.exr``` |
|Impostors| ```$HIP/`opname("..")`/export/${OS}_impostor/${OS}_beauty.exr``` |
|**KineFx**|
|FBX Character Export | ```$HIP/.... .fbx```
|FBX Animation Output | ```$HIP/.... .fbx```  
|**Vellum** |
|Vellum cache | ```$HIP/cache/...```
|**COP**|
|COP image | ```$HIP/`opname("..")`_cop/${OS}.exr```
|Embeded assets| opdef:/Sop/...



|||
|---|---|
|Name from attribute|$HIP/`details("../filecache1","attribute1")`.fbx
|offset 0010-0260  |$HIP/name.`padzero(4,$F-10)`.png  
|range loop 0000-0250 |$HIP/name.`padzero(4,$F%251)`.png    
|range loop 0050-0300 |$HIP/name.`padzero(4,($F-50)%251+50)`.png    
|hold first |$HIP/name.`padzero(4,min($F,250)`.png   
|hold last|$HIP/name.`padzero(4,max($F,1)`.png      
|clamp|$HIP/name.`padzero(4,clamp($F,1,250))`.png  



### Folders

- `$HIPNAME.hip`  
- `$HIP/raw/` - Sources     
- `$HIP/ref/` - References      
- `$HIP/ObjectA/`
  - `/export/v1/w0/`
    - `fileA.fbx` -     
    - `fileA_lod1.fbx`  
    - `fileA_lo.fbx`
    - `fileA_hi.fbx`
    - `fileA_locage.fbx`
    - `fileA_paint.fbx`
    - `/bake/fileA/fileA_channel.png`        
    - `/niagara/` -     
  - `/cache/`  
  - `/zbrush/fileA.ztl` - Tool (ctrl shift T)  
  - `/material/fileA.sbs` - Substance     Designer / Painter          
  - `/material/fileA.png` - Export    / in same folder as  spp/sbs   


### Files

##### Sufixes

- **Mesh Parts** - A B C D
- **Maps Channels**
  - `cd` - Color
  - `rg` - Roughness  
  - `ao` - Ambient
  - `cv` - Curvature
  - `th` - Thickness
  - `fb`
  - `h`
  - `a`
  - `p`
  - `nm`/`wn` - world normal  ,`bn` bent normal, `wp` - world position va

#### Attributes

Base
- `v@N` (vert) -  
- `@P`, `v@rest`, `v@Cd`, `i@id`, `@Alpha` (point)  
- `s@shop_materialpath` (prim) - to split mesh in partes / or do it by primitive Groups: Attr copy to `name`  

Manage
- `s@name` -  (prim) , joints names
- `i@class` -  (prim), reserved to connectivity   
- `i@id` -  particles, ctrl points for animation     
- `s@tag` - string in new scatter, tree
- `variation` - copy to point / new scatter

Uv
- `v@uv` - (vert)
- `v@uv1` ?.
- `i@udim=1001;` - (prims)
- `i@island=3;` - (prim)  


Fbx Export, Character    
- `boneCapture` At point. on the skin geometry - defines the skinning weights.  
- `clipinfo` - At detail. Current animation range and sample rate as well as the original animation range and sample rate of the imported animation.  
- `fbx_material_name`- At primitive. On the skin geometry - name of the material.  
- `material_override` - At primitive On the skin geometry -  material property values.  
- `name` - At point - unique name across all points used for identification. (only used if the `path` point is missing).  
- `path` - At point - hierarchical path of FBX node that corresponds to the point. It is created when FBX files are imported by the FBX Animation Import or FBX Character Import nodes. This path is used to identify where to export the point transforms.  
- `scaleinheritance` - At point, specifies the scaling behavior when performing local transformations. See `combinelocaltransform` and `extractlocaltransform`  
- `shop_materialpath` - Primitive path Currently, only material parameters of those belonging to the /nodes/shop/principledshader shader are recognized for export.  
- `transform` - This 3×3 matrix point attribute specifies the world transform for the point. While the world position of the point is still P, this transform encodes the world transform’s rotation, scale, and shear components.  

---
# Unreal Import

||SM (def)|VA3||SK|PP2|
|---|---|---|---|---|---|
Skeletal Mesh | | | |On| -
Generate Missing Collision | ||||-
Staticm MeshLODGroup | ||||-
Vert Color |  |Repleace|||Repleace|
Remove Degenerates || | x|| -
Building Adjacency Buffer | || x|| -
Building Reversed Index Buffer | | | x|| -
Generate Lightmap UVs | ||||-
One Convex Hull per UCX | || x||-
Combine Meshes | || x||-
Transform Vertex to Absolut | |On| x|| ?
Import Mesh LOD's || depending on Houdini |||-
Normal Import |  |Import Nm & Tang| Import Nm || ImportNm
Normal Generation | || Mikk TSpace||-
Compute Weighted Normal || | x || -
|.|
Transform|  |1| ||-
|.|
Convert Scene |  |On| x || On
Force Front XAxis  | || || x
Convert Scene to Unit | ||||-
Override Full Name | |On| x||-
|.|
Material | ||||-
Reorder mat to fbx |  | On|||-

with skeleton - update skeleton reference pose - !!!!!!!!! important

---

# Collision

- `UCX_*` - from houdini need to be in separated containers  named UCX_nameOfGeoContainer. - object level  (make container !!! and ROPnet > fbx)  


# Digital Assets

#### Asset node
RMB on node >
- `Create digital Asset`...  
- `Digital Asset` >
  - create new:  
  - preferences:   

- `Digital Asset` >
  - save ass
  - increase major

- `Allow Editing`
- `Match Definition`
- ``


#  H setup

- desktop .desk
- radial menu
- theme  /config/theme.hcs /inc
- color palete /config/colors.def


- Windows: C:\Users\username\Documents\houdini18.5
- OSX: ~/Library/Preferences/houdini/houdini18.5


#### Library

# P4
- `Accept Source` GEt clean file from repo, discarding your changes.  
- `Accept Target` Accepts the file local, overwriting repo.  
