---
title: Vex Syntax
description: VEX basic syntax
categories:
 - VEX
tags:
- VEX
- Houdini
---

<!-- more -->


VEX are written for a specific context.  
VEX is not indented language.  

Geometry editing by speed: Houdini node > VOP > compiled > vex > python

## Data types
Default data type is float

|variable | | ||
|--|--|--|--|
|`float` |`f@` |  float  ||
|`vector2` |`u@` | 2 floats  ||
|`vector` |`v@`  | 3 floats   ||
|`vector4` |`p@` |  4 floats  ||
|` int` |`i@` | integer ||
|`matrix2`  |`2@`  |2×2 floats||
|`matrix3` |`3@`  |   3×3 floats||
|`matrix` | `4@`  |  4×4 floats| `4@transform = matrix(ident());`|
|`string` | `s@`   | string |`s@myString = "abc";`|


### Reserved Keywords

`break`, `bsdf`, `char`, `color`, `const`, `continue`, `do`, `else`, `export`, `false`, `float`, `for`, `forpoints`, `foreach`, `gather`, `hpoint`, `if`, `illuminance`, `import`, `int`, `integer`, `matrix`, `matrix2`, `matrix3`, `normal`, `point`, `return`, `string`, `struct`, `true`, `typedef`, `union`, `vector`, `vector2`, `vector4`, `void`, `while`  

# Attributes



#### Material:

`s@shop_materialpath` - Path to a material. You can add this attribute to points using the Material surface node. When you instance an object onto a point with this attribute, the instanced object uses the given material. Not supported in the viewport.  

`s@material_override` A serialized Python dictionary mapping parameter names to values. You can add this attribute to points using the "override" controls on the Material surface node. When you instance an object onto a point with this attribute, the instanced object applies the given overrides to its material.  

#### Time
`$F` - The current frame, (as set with the play bar controls)  
`$FSTART` - start frame, `$FEND` - end frame  
`f@Time` -  Float time `$T` -  Current time, in seconds  
`f@Frame` -  Float frame `$FF`    
`f@SimTime` - Float simulation time `$ST`, only present in DOP contexts.  
`f@SimFrame` -Float simulation frame `$SF`, only present in DOP contexts.  
`f@TimeInc` - Float time step `1/$FPS`    

#### General
`i@ptnum` - Current point number / `i@primnum` /  `i@vtxnum`  
`i@numpt` - Total number of points  / `i@numprim`   / `i@numvtx`    

#### Geometry  
`v@P` - Point/Primitive Position  
`v@N` - Point/Primitive/Vertex Normal - to initialize normals @N = @N  

`v@Cd` - Color   
`v@v` - Velocity (e.g. for motion blur / in particle systems)  

`v@pivot` - Local pivot point for instance  
`f@lod` - Detail/Primitive Level of detail  
`v@rest` - Rest position  
#### Pop  
`v@force` - Force (e.g. acting on particle)  
`f@age` - Particle Age  
`f@life` - Max. Particle Life  

#### Transform
`f@pscale` - Uniform scale. Used in copy-SOP or particle systems  
`v@scale` - Non-Uniform scale. For use see pscale  
`v@up` - Up-Vector. Used together with @N to orient point/particle/instance    
`p@orient` - Quaternion defining the rotation of a point/particle/instance  
`p@rot` - Quaternion defining additional rotation  
`v@trans` - Translation of instance  
`3@transform` - Transformation matrix (used e.g. in Copy-SOP)  

#### Volumes
`f@density` - Density of voxel  
`i@ix, @iy, @iz` - Voxel indices along each axis. Ranging from 0 to resolution-1  
`v@center` - Center of current Volume  
`v@orig` - Bottom left corner of current Volume  
`v@size` - Size of current Volume  
`v@dPdx` - Change in position to get from one voxel to the next in x direction  
`v@dPdy` - Change in position to get from one voxel to the next in y direction  
`v@dPdz` - Change in position to get from one voxel to the next in z direction  
`v@BB` - relative position inside bounding box. Ranging from {0,0,0} to {1,1,1}  

#### Shading
`v@Cd` - Diffuse Color  
`f@Alpha` - Alpha transparency  
`v@uv` - Point/Vertex UV coordinates  
`v@Cs` - Specular Color  
`v@Cr` - Reflective Color  
`v@Ct` - Transmissive Color  
`v@Ce` - Emissive Color  
`f@rough` - Roughness  
`f@fresnel` - Fresnel coefficient  
`f@shadow` - Shadow intensity  
`f@sbias` - Shadow bias  



### Intrinsic
- being an extremely important and basic characteristic of a person or thing.  

# Precedence

### Arithmetic
`=`, `==` (same as), `!=`, `>`,` <`, `>=`, `<=` , `+=`, `++` - add one , `%` - modulus  

### Conditionals

`==` - equal,`!=` - is not equal    
`a ~~= b` - equivalent to `match(a, b)` strings      
`!` - Logic negation  
`||`- Logic OR  
`&&` - Logic AND  


# Functions
```cpp
int fnName(int a, b; string c)
{
    int c=0;
    c = a*b;
    return c;
}

// call fn:
int foo = 1;
@bar = fnName(foo, @ptnum);
```

# Conditioning



> in ternary conditional `(condition) ? true : false`. use logical operators: `&&` (AND), `||` (OR)

```cpp
@P.y *= (v@P.y > 0) ? ch("ValueAbove") : ch("ValueBelow");
```
```cpp
@foo = (@ptnum <= 0 || @ptnum >= (@numpt-1)) ? 1 : 0; // Color first and last point
```
```cpp
if(b<a) s@foo = "true";
else if(b=a) s@foo = "equal";
else s@foo = "false";
```

```cpp
if(b < a)
    s@foo = "true";
else if(b=a)
    s@foo = "equl";   
else
    s@foo = "false";
```


```cpp
if(b<a) {
    s@foo = "true";
}
else if(b=a){
    s@foo = "equl";
}
else {
    s@foo = "false";
}
```







# Loops
### For
> Do for x elements

```cpp
int a = 5;
for (int i=0; i<13; i++) {
    a *= 5;
    if (a > 10000000) break;
}
i@a = a;
```

`break` keyword - can stop the loop at any point

### ForEach
> iterating over elements of an array

```cpp
v[]@colors = { { 1,0,0} , {0,1,0} , {0,0,1} };

foreach(vector x; @colors)
{
   if (x == {1,0,0})
    {
       @colors[0] = set(rand(@ptnum+123),rand(@ptnum-1),rand(@ptnum+42));
    }
}
```
`continue` keyword to jump to the next loop iteration. in this example we average point position with positions of neighbours which are above it in world space (their Y coordinate is larger)

### While
>until condition

change colors of nearby points from 2 op.
```cpp
float rad=ch('radius');
int  maxpt=10;
int handle;
vector foo;

handle= pcopen(@OpInput2,"P",@P,rad,maxpt); // cloud open

while(pciterate(handle)) //return one until point is valid
{
   pcimport(handle,"Cd",foo);
   @Cd = foo;
}

```
# Arrays

`array()` - Efficiently creates an array from its arguments.  
`int fooArray[] = {};` - Array variable    
`int fooArray[] = array(1,2,3,4); ` - Array variable      
`i[]@fooArray = {-1,0,1};` - Array attribute    
`i[]@connected_pts = neighbours(0, @ptnum);` - Array attribute   



`i@firstItem = numbers[0];` - Reading from arrays    
`vector fooArray[] = v[]@fooArray; ` - Load array attributes into local var      

`numbers[0] += 1;` - Add value to [0]   
`i@fooArray[1] = @primnum;` - Set primnum in array[1]       

`getcomp()` - Gets the value of an array component, the same as array[num].    
`setcomp()` - Sets the value of an array component, the same as array[num] = value.    

##### Slice
`i[]@firstHalf = numbers[:2];` - Slicing   
`i[]@secondHalf = numbers[2:];` - Slicing   
`i@secondLastItem = numbers[-2];` - Indexing can also go backwards   
##### Add Remove   
`push(numbers, i@returnedPopVal);` - Appends element to the array   
`removevalue(i[]@fooArray, ValueToRemove); `   

`pop(i[]@MyArray, IndexToRemove)` - -last item from the array (decreasing the size of the array by 1) and returns it.    
`push(@MyArray, ValueToAdd)` - Adds an item to the end of an array (increasing the size of the array by 1).   
`resize()` - Sets the length of the array. If the array is enlarged, intermediate values will be 0 or "".      

##### Search
`i@lenghtOfArray = len(numbers);`  `len()` - -length of an array.    
`find(i[]@MyArray, ValueToFind)`      



##### Serialize
`serialize()` - Flattens an array of vectors or matrices into an array of floats.    
`unserialize()` - Reverses the effect of serialize: assembles a flat array of floats into an array of vectors or matrices.



Other fns works with arrays:  
`min()`
`avg()`
`spline()`
`import()`
`addattribute()`
`metaimport()`



#### random item using ptnum  

```cpp
string array[] = ['A','B','C'];
s@letter = array[fit(random(@ptnum,0,1,0,21)];
```

in specific frames


```cpp
int frames[] = {2,4,10,11};
if( find( frames, @Frame) >= 0){
}
```



#### Flattening an array of vectors and reverting it

```cpp
vector vectors[] = { {1,2,3}, {4,5,6}, {7,8,9} };
f[]@serializedVectors = serialize(vectors);
v[]@unserializedFloats = unserialize(f[]@serializedVectors);
```

#### lerp arrays

```cpp
function float[] array_lerp(float array1[]; float array2[]; float amount)
{
    int count = len(array1);
    float result[];

    for (int i=0; i<count; i++)
    {
        float cur_result = lerp(array1[i],array2[i],amount);
        append(result,cur_result);
    }
    return result;
}
```

`neighbours()` - An array-based replacement for the neighbourcount/neighbour combo. Returns an array of the point numbers of the neighbors of a given point.  


# Matrices
> array of arrays
 intilize a vector

```cpp
float   f = 0;
vector  v = set(f,f,f);
matrix3 m = set(f,f,f,f,f,f,f,f,f);
        m = set(v,v,v);

```
```cpp
float f = getcomp(m,0,0); // read the value
```


# Structs


# Include
```cpp
#include "math.h"
```
import files from:
$HIP/vex/include   
$HOME/houdiniXX.X/vex/include   
$HH/vex/include  




# Cvex
>CVEX is VEX code that runs outside a context. CVEX doesn’t have predefined variables, since it is just a program that Houdini calls with certain arguments (usually corresponding to points or data on points).



--

# H script

`$F3` - int frame with `padzero(5, $F)`- pad0    
`$FF` - float frame   
`${F}` - The current frame, (as set with the Playbar controls)   
``` `$F+1` ``` - Next frame   


`$N` - Old number of points `npoints(0)`  
`$OS` - `opname("..")`- for container name    

`$FSTART` - start frame, `$FEND` - end frame  

`$T` - Current time, in seconds `f@Time`  
`$ST` - only present in DOP contexts `f@SimTime` - Float simulation time   
`$SF`- only present in DOP contexts `f@SimFrame` - Float simulation frame    
`1/$FPS` - `f@TimeInc` - Float time step   
