---
title: Motivation

categories:
 - PSY
tags:
- Science
- Cognition
- Gameplay

description: attention, cognition motivation, emotion, choice, satisfaction
permalink: /cognition/
---

[//]: # ()
Emotions vs Logic


# Cognition
### Cognitive Biases
- Regency Bias
- Confirmation Bias
- False-Consensus Effect
- Hindsight Bias (Rationalize that something happened)
- Endowment Effect  (Want to sell item for more)
- Mere Exposure Effect (More often see more u like it)
- Bias Blind Spot (other feel different than you)
- Peak-End Rule (shortcut when thinking how feel about exp. you thing about: 1 highest peaks and at end )

### Cognitive Dissonance

Free choice  
Forbidden Behavior paradigm  
Induced compliance  
Belief disconfirmation  
Effort justification  









- more easily we can understood by what it do than by its properties
- Humans bad in accepting loses



----

# Consciousness (hard problem)

- addaptive state let us discover

do they understand simulation in which they have self and attribute properties to self. recognize that there is cohesive world (internal observation).
everything u precive is generated by youtr mind and its changable

(observation) create reality (colapse probablity to reality)

- maya - illusion
- lila - play
u can enyoy playing agames even it is not reality

we learn and evolve to percive reality that can help us survive not see how it is

|simulation (world view) |Percepts | Patterns
|---|---|---|
|curent world state|Environmental | Visual Auditory Tactile(na zewnatrz)
self somatic|Somatosensory | Tactile Proprioceptive
self social + personal |Motivational | Proprioceptive Emotional
self mental + (Mental stage (imagined state)) |Mental |Emotional Imaginery

self
1. somatic
2. social
3. personal  
+ attentional system select from enviro to construst world model based on global maps (konowledge patterns we nkow )

Patterns
Percepts
simulation
knowledge


feedback loop of our actions other perceptions and our reaction to this perception


----

## Brain

Hemispheres

||||
|---|---|---|
||Left Hemisphere|Right Hemisphere|
|Operation in |Explored territory | Unexplored territory
|Affect|Positive|negative
|Behavior| Activation | Inhibition
|Processing| World| Imafe
|Thinking|Linear|Holistic|
|Recognition|Detail| Pattern |
|Generation|Detail|Pattern|
|Action |Fine Motor|Gross Motor|





----

## Memory
>in brain:  hypocampus  
memory  is not stored as plasticity of synapses only. but is one aspect of formation of neuro network as well. therefor can connect with other memories.

- repetition drive memory
- to better memorize constraint to your thoughts from past
- if u starving its not good time to remembering
- stress hormones give advantages to remembrance in short time
- LTP  
- alcohol directly disrupt LTP
- categorical way of thinking is how

----
Cognitive effort capacity and mental load


# Thinking
## Fast and Slow (Daniel Kahneman)

What to do to improve a quality of judgement



- easier to see errors of others (objective observers more likely detect our errors)
- systematic errors : biases (biases on intuitions)
- reliance on statistic produce bias (we have intuition for grammar but not for statistics)
- judging probability by representatives, better than by chance, sometimes stereotypes have true in it.  (ocenieanie po wygladzie)
- corruption of fought by emotions



##### Attention

Have limited budget to spend  
- concentrations on a task make  invisible some things (gorilla) blind to obvious and blind to our blindness  
- hard to multitask and depend on tasks  


##### Intuition  

is only = recognition  
- expert intuition is real, accumulation things stored in memory  
- expert intuition can have biases as : affect   



##### Media coverage bias

- frequently  mentioned topics popular mind even if as other slip away from awareness.
- showing what in public mind in their view
- dramatic events and celebrities
- no stands on critical topic with less drama



##### Useful fiction

represent  
sentence is recognized more by `what it is` easily then by its property



## 1. Systems Distinction



Generally we are using system 1 which have more influence than we think, u cannot stop it. can only learn to detect  


#### Automatic (System 1)
Core of system 1 create coherent interpretation what's going on, continuously creating suggestions. Not good in statistic
- Fast
- intuitions  
- impulses   
- routine
- Effortless choice


#### Effortful (System 2)
When sys 1 go to difficulty (is not able to get answer) call to sys 2  
- Slow
- Believes  
- Voluntary actions  
- self control
- Adopts conclusions by sys 1
- in charge of self control
- Capable of work with data include complex computation. Agency, choice, computation (have in mind partial solutions while doing next computations)

## 2. Attention & Effort

overcome crazy decisions of sys 1  only by effort because 1 cannot be turned off.  
Only by monitoring by sys 2  

Vital task that required control and effort   
- Efort required if have severeal idesa required several actions   

##### Cognitive illusions

you cannot see lines equal even you know they are  
to resist t only can learn mistrust impressions  
recall what you know about it. but will still see as illusion  


##### Pupils
`Pupils in eyes can show you how much effort U put  !`  
`Some were dark glasses to hide interet`  
Effort is distanced from euphorically arousals   
- if stop thinking pupils shrank

##### Invisible gorilla
- blindness when concentrated
depend on mental effort
mental overload - capacity: sys 2 , spare capacity is .,..
Currency of attention.


Switching between tasks is efortfull
Accumulating resoultss.
Time presure.
ew divide task to

region in brain that
https://youtu.be/8cVSIDBx1wo?t=5827


## 3. Lazy Controller
lazy system 2 will adopt

we can decide what to do but limited what effor we put in it.

- in emergnecies sys 1 take control and taked a self protection actions
- if you are skjilled demand for energy deminish Pattern of activity change after trening.

.
- effort is a cost
- lazyness is build deep in our nature


sys 1 gather simple relation but not combine informations


Too many people relay on intuition





## 4.
2:17:00 z 9:58:00

assoscitation wtords
(banana, vomit)
ideas triger other ideas

World > memories > emotions > facial expression
self reinforcing pattern of emotional, cognitive, and physical responces.

priming efect - sth in your mind conect with other things
habitatual connection - expressions and not unconiously

smile to fell better



### ASSOTIATIVE MEMORY !!!!
(asociated activation: podobne mysli przychodzą na mysl )
links  to categories and other objects  
causes to effect  
you think with your body not onlyu brain

Association rule mining is a procedure which aims to observe frequently occurring patterns, correlations, or associations from datasets found in various kinds of databases such as relational databases, transactional databases, and other forms of repositories.

hume reduyced to: resemblence, coausality,m contigiuiti in time and space


##### priming effect
- sth u see before can recall things.



## 5. cognitive izzz
2:46

multiple causes which produce illusions of trueth
if familiar accept -
produced of amiliarity by sys 1 and sys 2 judge if its true

##### illusions of rememberigng

? straiun and effort (3:00:00)

plesure of cognitive izz > conected with good feelings

`mire exposue efect` - PODOBNO NIE DZIALA ?

!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!  familiarity heve experience of pastness its an illusion

enough  to rememnber fragment of sentense, no need to repeat whole.


Coarelational but not causal




|CLUSTERS:||
|-|-|
good mood intuition cretivety and relaiance on, guard down|sys 1
adnes analityc aproach suspicion incresed effort, maby thred | sys 2

NORM SPECIFY RANGES IN CATEGORIES



## 7. Machine for jumping int o conclusions (3:45)
RISKI IN UNFAMILIAR SITRUATION
IUNTUITIVE ERRORS PROBNABLE !   
CAN BE STOPED BY 2   

UNCERTATNIT > SYS 2

accept advert when tired hungry ect....

hallo efect . 1 slowo splywa na wydzwiek

what u see is what there is.

## 8 how judgement happened

Mental shotgun

## answering easier question

u have intuitive opinions for all before u will analyze it


5:00:00 LISTA !!!!!!!!!!!!!!


PART 2 !!!!  HEURISTIC AND BIASSES !!!!!

# 10


# 11 anchors
5:33:00 -   

2 mechanism.
- deliberate proces of ajustment sys 2
- by priming efect, automatic sys 1


Avaibnelity heuristic




```

####### conflict


## Study of judgment heuristic
why is so dif to think staiscticly
tstatisctic is thinking more than 1 thing witch cannot be done in sys 1


## ignorance
overestim how much we know
and underestimate events



## 3)
## 4) experience and rememberence cells
2 painfull exp: 1 longer. but we can exploit to remember it better


Chapters:

2. Study of judgement statistic. Why its hard to think statistically (sys 1 is not god)
3. limitation of our mind. Confidence what we believe we know. and hard to acknowledge how lo we know. Overconfidence because of (nie widzimy dużo i myslimy ze to wsystko co jes t)
4. economic. Model of choice deviate from rationality. Decvisions are driven bym inconsequential features of.
5. recent search. distinction EXPERIENCED cell and REMEMBERING cell. (2 experiences: 1 longer, we can exploit remembering cell)

##### Distinctions in book:
1. Experience cell , remember cell
2. agents in classical economics and behavioral economics


What underlay intuition and how it influence judgement  


```   
)
