---
title: Human Behavioral Biology

categories:
 - PSY
tags:
- Cognition
- Science

description: ( Evolution , Genetic, Environment, Neurobiology )
permalink: /humbio1/
---


(HUMBIO160 sem. I - Standford. Robert Sapolsky).



#  Human Behavioral Biology  
`Nature` vs `Nurture`. interconnection physiology and behavior: BODY influence BRAIN and HEAD influence BODY (physiology). There nothing magic about human over animal from biological point of view (synchronizing periods chemical airborne signals. disrupt when add male with man fermions. Dominating and outgoing is to whom they synchronize.)


Human behavior is complex. Optimizing social behavior since 1980: sociobiology > evolutionary psychology.

- behaviors dictate your desires and wants, not about needs !


### Categorial thinking
Made simplified model of the world > pattern
###### Thinking in categories and labels:
- category of things that are same length as rulers
- category of fast run (4 min a mile impressive)
- easier to deal with facts and remember  - people remember more color what they can call by name

###### Problems with categorial thinking:
- too much attention to categories you cant differentiate things/facts that fall in same category (similar sounded)
- things near boundaries are similar even in different sides  (49 or 50 in test)
- to much attention to boundaries and you cant see big picture (series telephone numbers and spaces)






# Evolution

## Behavioral Evolution
`Darwin` & `Russel Waless`
- Evolution U cannot understand behavior outside of context of evolution. (sociobiology >> evolutionary psychology. )
evolution is not inventor is tinkerer. trying to make things from existing conditions

Evolution of populations: heritable traits with variability , some of those are more likely to copy genes to next geo  
Evolution in population is changing frequencies of traits in time.
- heritable traits
- variability of traits
- some will carry more adaptiveness
- mutations (random changes)
- change over time > speciation  + mutations

same with behavior certain are heritable and have genetic component.



Optimize to reproduce copies -  Animals behave to pass ass many gens as possible  
`Nash equilibrium` - tactic to optimizing solution. (giraffe hart is big therefor it can have long neck) optimal strategy and solution to behavior


### 1. Individual selection
Reproduce ~ selfish gen -  to pass so many copy of gens that can
sometimes chicken  is an egg making another egg  

- natural selection more adaptive win  
- sexual selection have no adaptive value   

### 2. Kin selection & recognition
You will be as successful if you help your relatives to reproduce. Sometimes behavior reduce success of reproduce individual to increase probability relevant. (Closer relative to you more gens share  Twins 100% gin, Siblings 50$ - half 25) as a function of relativeness

with siblings you have same type of gene coding for the types of change
genetic similarities: share genes coding for 98%  same functionality

Can explane obsesion with kinship !!!!!  >> care more about relatives

- Evolution select of organism cooperate with relatives.
- Animals are aware of relatives and those who cooperate



##### Recognizing relatives:
- don't bread with relatives
- bread with same species !!!
best relatedness is 3 cousins ? (nearest >?)


hormons: oxytocin & vensopresant

Recognize smell if-then mechanism.  like vaginal fluid  
If you growth before 5 yo u will never married   
Human cognitive rules but not always instinct (smell ect..)  for mother not father  


### 3. Reciprocated Altruism (Game theory)


[GameTheory](/gametheory/)  

Strengths and vulnerability give rock paper scissor scenario making an equilibrium state Cooperating with non relatives - Smart and social animals. Recognize others, long lived animals. But fungi do so as well. Also: able to cheat and take advantages. `Tik tak toe` > and strategies > `game theory`.

(is not player specific, data free rational choses)
exploit opponent on vulnerability
evolution of optimal strategy

Win strategies - Inverse nr of copies. Competition  To get tiny of advantage  
There is set of games not one game. It change rules
- rock paper scissors scenario give the harmony
- reputation to see if its credible


##   Pair Bounding vs. Tournament species dichotomy
The behavior of animal species scatters between two extremes

Sexual dimorphism is the condition where the two sexes of the same species exhibit different characteristics beyond the differences in their sexual organs. You can see it by difference in skull size



| Humans are between: | Tournament (male much bigger) | Pair bounding |
| - | - | - |
Aggression | Yes (bodies build for it) | No |
Reproductive success | More variability | - |
Female choice| Big male (want to offspring have that traits) | Male parental behaviors|
Life spans | Shorter | |
Birth to twins | No (don't abandons kids) | Yes (low costs) |
Cuckoldry | No. Need man for parenting | Yes |
Imprinted genes |  Yes | |


- `Imprinted genes` (fetal genes. work depend which parent came from) humans in between    
- `Group selection` root in Kin.  `Darvin Cathedral` book religion as fn of group Selection     
- `Multi level selection`   trade play individually emerge as group  

**Spices kill offspring patterns**
- Males kill infants tacies offspring of other mails (competitive strategy)
- Alpha male when cant be reproductive active
- Killing sperm of other mans by toxines.
- don't do it to close relatives  (kin)
- old non reproductive mother will defend kids more  
- 2 male lions  showing pride are brothers often  
- adelfic polyandry - woman married man and his brothers  (poor aerias)

birds give to females flowers to show that there are able to bring food


**Critique**
- `Heritability` of traits. Show me gene which do it  
- `Adaptiveness` Not everything adaptive. A lot of spandrels.   
- `Gradual change`  (punctuated equilibrium rather than graduate step - marxist and promote competirive not coop)
- `Political critique` it have implication in politics  








## Molecular Genetic
Sequence of DNA > RNA > Amino acid > Protein > Shape (lock and key) > function of protein

`micorevolution` - changes big consequences in functions of proteins  (how good they work)  
`macroevolutin` - wchich proteins  (when if-then closes)) far more consequential  


### DNA
dna most is readout and most of all is environmental regulation when gens activate


### RNA


#### Amino acids
20 `amino acids` different
40 z 64 (possible combination) neutral   
2/3 no change in amino acid

#### Proteins
gens specify proteins which: hold shape cell togh, neurotransmiters, hormons, enzymes doing important stuff and workhorses for what cell do what suposet to do   
1 gen can create different proteins under different circumetances   
`hormons` - blood borne chamical messenger   

hormons floating around and affect body   
proteins in nature hormons bind to receptons. > activ and deact transcription factors   

fg testosteron from testires and affect muscles (muscle biggerr)  
context is more interesting than protein itslef sometimes   

#### Point micromutations
accydently miscopy, changed by radioation , chemical compound, ...   
-  one letter flipped to another - entire neutral, moderate,  great consequences - sometimes no consequences (4potetntial lettes) 64 of possible 3 letters of informations redundancy in genetic code - diferent combinations code sometimes for same aminoacides   
- letter missing : major totaly change code !!!     
- incertion : double letter and frame shift: major conseq     
- shape mutration - changehow well protein will work shape of protein can be modif and interact   


#### Promoter  
In genetics, a promoter is a sequence of DNA to which proteins bind that initiate transcription of a single RNA from the DNA downstream of it. This RNA may encode a protein, or can have a function in and of itself, such as tRNA, mRNA, or rRNA

change promotor > major shift in behaviour without changeing gine


#### Enzymes
Catalize reacitions / significantly speed up the rate of virtually all of the chemical reactions that take place within cells.

#### .

diferent `genes` with same `promotor` > activate `transcrption` of many (* arry of proteins can have same promotor) same promotor can regulate bunch of genes
and: same promotor`transcriptoon factor` can transcript different `genes`


jumping genes > transposones (transposable genetic elements)
and enviroment have sth to do with cgenetic efect

#### Genetics
about `frutilisation`
genetric dna seqences

#### Epigenetics
about `development`

regualtion of acces to gen
enviroment regulate and make life long changes to acces to genes

epigenetic some way of staiting it:
- culture affect bioology:
- enviro turns genes on/off
- regulation of genes (changeing acces of transcription factors)




## Classic Genetics
heratibilit of alcoholizm cryminality strong genetic component in trade

`same sex twins`  
`dizigotic twins `    
`monozigotic twins` - 2/3 of identical twins `monocrionic`  - same blood stream (more similar IQ) 1/3 `bicrionic`   
`adpotion studies` - same env dif geeens (non randomnes on adpotion )
`identical twins separated at bearth`   
`prenatal enviroment` -0 long term effects  evenin generation after 1!!  
     - sharing blood > local endycroniligac  effects > hormones > prenatal stress   !!!NON genetic heritage of TRAITS   
     - sounds form mother resonate with child (father not)  

egs have mitochondria sperm not > so egs exclusivly from mother   
egs transcription factor > sper mnot  



### Metabolic programming
produce thrifty phenotype
DUTCH HUNGER WINTER > (step function of starvation) > your body in 2-3 trimester(then is programing) learn (no much nutarians) mom starving >
94 more obesity and other diseases. Higher risk of metabolic disorder


### Concept of heritability
describes how much of the variation in a given trait can be attributed to genetic variation.

diference between:
- something is inherated (5 fingers) traide
- Variability > herability 0% (envirom) sircumstences that non 5 fingers.
more diferent enviro lower heratibility will be >> if you understand genetic of behaviour you must check it in dif enviroments





# Environment
Ethology
- If u want understand behavior take it out of lab  to natural habitat
open to communication in animal language
- basic gene pattern shaped by environment  and learn how to do it better  (gene - environment cooperation)


**Fix action pattern**
- characteristic  behavior
- spices specific (fear of przepaść. )
examples: smile, anger look like, lordosis reflex (only when estrogen levels up (ovulating))

**Phenomena of one trial learning.**

**Self awareness**  
 Lot of species

- theory of minds: discover that different individuals have different information than you have animals can into ie. birds, chimpanzees   
- recognize individuals   
- animals plan for future  
- sense of: other group is bigger than our


# Neurobiology

## Endocrinology
Ability of chromones to change nervous system
Emotions and behavior of limbic system
spinal cord move different system - personality temperament

- Multiple neurotransmitters from  same neuron
- Array of hormones' that bring same general response


Endocrine system
Enzymes that make neurotransmitters
Enzymes that break neurotransmitters apart
reproductive status change how brain work

**ACTH** - stimulating of release by different factors (stress signature)   

Hormons impact brain
depression - wrong level of neurotransmiters
diabities - glucose detected in bloodstream and make insuline > to store sugar but full fat cells have to much and become insuline resistant  and downregulate insuline receptors


## Neurology
-  yo got to know your spiecies (ethological principle  )
 - yo got to know your individual. ie if is dominante and have some fixeed action patterns



 **fusiform cortex**: reco faces   ( involved in high-level vision. )
 anterior cingulate: empathy for pain but depend whos face
 - pokazanie twarzy na ekranie powoduje ze jestesmy bardziej szczerzy



## Limbic system

Limbic sys is for setrying hypothalamic functions. trying to infliuence and try to dominate other limbic regions in this influence. Influence is bigger and faster because are close. quickest way is small distance > smal number of synapses away

All aspect ar influenced by hoormones and limbic system bothway - bidirectionality **(descardie whing wrong and separate it)**



**Frontal cortex** is proportiasnoly bigger if spiecies have big group because of  gossip, social behaviours and connections ect...


Limbic sys structure do:
- **amigdala** play central role in aggression (not generate) u can not understand neurobiology of beeign voilent (aression) without under neurobioloigy fear amd....
- **amigdala** lso: sexual behaviour
- **amigdala** mediate agressionm
- amigdala try silence septum and septum amigdala
- **sepalon**: exhibit agression  
- **hipocampus**. (interier with stress: what i did lat time when io got in truble ) learning and memory  (but figure out when turn off.. )
- **prefrontal cortex** - maturaion and proper sex beh (not why but whem be agressive), empathy (and things with depression)
- **ventral tegmental & nucleus accumbens** depresion dopamine pleasure (addictive drugs cocaine) stymulate dopamine release. appetetyw beh, its not about geting reward but anticipation and powering beh u getr reward
-**Hypothalamus** -  (body temperture...) small inside. reptilian part ancient stuff, purely regulatory. Temperature regulation Part of brain ... Emotions . sexual behaviours, and there are gender differences and sexual orientation. Transgender have dif sizes. mamals. (therfore transgender is not about wrong sex but wrong body)
- **PVN** CA stres by abstract cognitive  stafge
- **Lateral hypothalmus** - hunger


how u feal emotion:
- stimulus comne to your brain and before you can thing body have already responce



```

hormon - adrenaline and epinefrine
if not epinefrine:  is modulatory: exponent of emotion u already have.
(exaturate, magnify , modulate) state


- benzodiazepines valium decress enxiety AND ALSO FOR: muscle relaxation
         because muscle can send signal to clam you
- meditation - to biofidback? - blood presure cand drop

- feadack loop- it take tiem to get back to normal state of organism,
       gende different its loinger to  go to baseline in females (after sex too)

- force someone to smile make them happier

```
