---
title: TOP

categories:
 - HOU
tags:
- Houdini
- .HIP
description: PDG - Procedural Dependency Graphs
permalink: /pdg/
---



# PDG





name index frame state id

[PDG.hiplc](/src/hip/PDG/PDG.hiplc)

These built in PDG variables are available everywhere any numerical attribute can be padded with `:number`. ( `@pdg_index:4` )

Dont use `@pdg_index`, use specific attribs like `@wedgeindex`
### Attributes

`@pdg_input` - always evaluates to the first input of the current workitem.  
`@pdg_input.1` and `@pdg_input.2` to address other inputs. (When a workitem is being evaluated on the farm, this is how to make sure the network being evaluated has the correct inputs for that workitem.  Do not use `@pdg_output` for this purpose, as the workitem has not computed yet and so has no output.)
`@pdg_output` - PDG var with sop path. Always evalutes to the first output of the current workitem.
` @pdg_output.1` and `@pdg_output.2` to address other outputs. Useful for visualization purposes (eg. File sop with `@pdg_output` will display current workitem output if it's a geometry).  Do not use for other purposes.  
`@pdg_index` - the index of the current workitem - may not be unique within even a single processor.  Check in the case of your processor node.
`@wedgeindex` - wedge individual index
`@pdg_name` - the unique name of the current workitem.   
`@pdg_log` - the log file if present, available after a workitem has finished cooking.  
`@pdg_frame` - the frame of the workitem.  Will evaluate to 0 if the workitem doesn't have a frame.  
`@pdg_loopdepth` - set to the depth of the for loop.  So for example if you have a nested loop, the inner loop will have @pdg_loopdepth set to 1, and the other loop will be 0.

`@wedgeindex `




geo input in cache file ``` `pdginput(0, "file/geo" , 0)` ```





### Nodes

#### RopFetch
- rop path (fbx rop / maps bake rop)

#### RopGeoOutput
- sop path to end of network node  
- path to save geometry (bgeo / obj)  

#### HDA processor
// create inputs ?   


## Add ons

#### Image Magic

Check if instaled CMD:
magick
ffmpeg
```
Microsoft Windows [Version 10.0.19042.1165]
(c) Microsoft Corporation. All rights reserved.

C:\Users\Adam>magick
Error: Invalid argument or not enough arguments

Usage: magick tool [ {option} | {image} ... ] {output_image}
Usage: magick [ {option} | {image} ... ] {output_image}
       magick [ {option} | {image} ... ] -script {filename} [ {script_args} ...]
       magick -help | -version | -usage | -list {option}
C:\Users\Adam>
```

----------------video
CSVInput - for warey wedge
attribute copy -
rop composite top - can import cops  reference an image what pdg is working on (pdg driven - out of previous network )


partition by attribute -
