---
title: Art

categories:
 - ART
tags:
- Art
- Design
description: Planning, references, concept composition.
---


# Attitude

## Approach

- Don't save on means. Hardware and tools defining your way.   

## Mindset

- **Don't make excuses**.   
- **Understanding** Understand medium
- **Strong visual library** Help with finding patterns.
- **Practice**
- **Perseverance**. Doing something despite difficulty or delay in achieving success)
- **Habits** help to free mind of thinking about basics. Rhythm have benefits
- **Control attention span**. State of Mind. Breaths. Get into the zone.

- if you want be better you must accumulate lot of training data to cancel wrong data, and you must pinpoint attention on things you want to improve so you can reinforce it.
- reasoning  changes immidielty with resoults, and doing next steps
- cnowledge: cultural, anatomy,
## Planning  

   - Check **anchors**  and **constraints** to work within restrictions.   
   - Identify possible **obstacles** that can interrupt or slow you down.
   - Use **limitations as strengths**.
    - Make it **simple**, optimize.(simple rule > complicated behavior).  (keep things simple complex)
   - Work on main issues and resolve **core problems**.  
   - Break **complex problems** into pieces. If u can quantify u can overcome it.
   - **Pipelines** - to make data and information flow through easy and prevent bottlenecks.
   - **Automate** processes. Keep things **procedural** as long you can for quick fixes.
   - **tools** to organize automate make easier
   - Have **crumple zone** to be able to reduce scope.
   - **R'n'D** - Set `end goal`, gather `references`, build `prototype`, iterations `refine`  
   - Quid pro quo **time vs detail** precision and nuance creates fidelity
   - Development means **Iterations**
   - Road to first pixel / check your effect asap  to



---

# Conception

# References  & Design

Things not working from memory. Its crucial.    
Design thinking not generic!   
The applied arts. Design is a language.


- **Brief** `Parti pris` – statement of design goals and constraints
- **Analysis** – analysis of current design goals **form** and **function**  
- Choose **key words** for representative things, to get essence.
- **Research** – Create board. investigating similar design solutions in the field or related topics
- Order ref. and **make idea clear**, choose and mark part of references you want to use to avoid ambiguity.
- **design**  

| . | |  |
| - | - |- |
|**DNA** | `Culture` aesthetic,  History `Period` ('80), `Function` , engeneering , life expectency economic |Universal, Cultural / Animalistic, Manufactured    
|**Material** | `Substance`, `Stiffness` | Smooth, Rough / Leather, Spandex
|**Age**  |`Wear`, `Tear`, `Erosion`, `Dirt`,  `Scratches`  
|**Pattern** | | Uniform, Fractal
|**Motion**  | `Nature of motion` | Organic, Mechanic
|other specifics...   || Minimalistic or Rich, thin, heavy, wytrzyały, zasady swaita, socio-political influences



 (Maked for speed? like motocycles  ) when was made '80 '90. Different character. Curved or quad, weight, level of detail

recognize features ...  
form follow function  



## Design for existing settings

if u need design something in similar style reverse engenire understand design influences  and intention. Find references they maight use

## Design from base
u know what things are. culturally programed by life.
Cultural norms
grounded in cultular aseptence
find anchor point to build designs around llike: circle
strong visual language help identify patterns

#### Visual Library
exposed to visual library


#### Subject matter



#### Subject costs

- Difficulty of subject matter:
easy: give you large margin of error - organic shapes, subject matters we are not familiar on daily basis, more things are more sophisticated so medieval are easier and manufactured harder, human is hard > faces + dynamics and motion
science -fiction most difficult because u must be ahead with thought

dirt and destroyed  - easier
clean  

dark - cheaper to produce  
bright - explensive  

existing - cheaper  
non existing  

past - cheap  
future - expensive  


- interesting siluethe - easier to draw  
- if simple sil. harder to fill with detail (may require possing dificult forms )  






## Concept Art
Sketch of design  
  Concept is communication form. Can help in further development if references are insufficient.

- Exploration: **variations** and **iterations** (make 3 options and hybridize  based on feedback) Options, not variations. Variations are for finished concept.
- Concept should be usable
- Form perspective to be **able to translate** directly to 3d
- Draw additional **site views** and important elements.
- Don't limit yourself. Use 3d, textures, kit bash, references, photo bash



---



# Composition
- have a subject matter
- **Focal point**, composition lines (but its not true that they lead eye (physically) its not literally its only specializing abstract concept ). If character in scene, focal point is where is head or where he look.
- **Rule of 3rd**  
- **Golden ratio** `sectio aurea` a+b/a = 1.618 φ  - golden spiral is a logarithmic spiral whose growth factor is φ  

- **Depth**
- **Edges**
   - Occur in: `Object`, `Plane` or `Color`  
   - Types:  `Hard`, `Soft`, `Lost`
   - Avoid: (tangents) `Hidden`, `Skimmed`, `Fused`, `Stolen`
- **Crop**
   - can be indicated by shadow,
   - character can bye cropped by item
   - by edge of canvas


**Dynamic vs static**  
- dynamism: moment just `before action`, `during`, `after`
- Visual flow `Lateral Updraft`, `Bouncing`, `Stuck in vortex`, `Swipe and repeat`, `Chutes n ladders`, `Splitting atom`   
youtu.be/wBA_qGRqd20?t=267


Basic compo: foreg human sized scale ref / mid : subject matter, back : context
### Perspective
lens  
camera position.
 - human camera. Eye level, or below.
 - horizon on the shot
- fov games 60 , concept art design 90-120 FOV (;ems 35 or smaller up to 8) (to show more even in small spaces )

15 left + right  = 30  = preferred viewing area   
25 x 2 = immediate field o f view (max eye movement)  
60 x2 head rotation  (console games)  
95 x 2 head & eyes  (max viewing area)   

console optimised for tv far away
pc fov higher because is closer to eyes

---

### Scale
  - `proportion` crucial. If sth to thick > like a toy can change perception!  
  - Refer to `human scale` and show `relations` with other objects     
  - lot of fog make enviro bigger






---


# Draw
- Practice one line not multiple in same place
- relax arm, let lines flow  
- Flip  for perspective correction   
- Thumbnails for detail correction   
- B&W for valor correction  

##  Line drawing

**Line weight** (thickness):
- areas of shadow
- areas of form overlap
- corners creases like ao
- area with weight  (usually bottom)
- On focal point (where u should look)
- Detail Control: Most details on: Focal point / silhouettes

**Contour lines** indicate forms. (across form) give dimension. Like a directional texture on object  
**Fill** with light gray marker Build slowly  
**Highlights** - Paper not always white 100% so you can add little bit of   with white paint.




---

# Paint


- start with big forms then refine
- basics: dark mid light/ fore mid back-ground   

- darks are easy to get drrker and light to get lighter so left some contrast to refine and add during process
- softer gradiend and sharper, crisper places  


## Value
color change in light conditions.  (Green is in middle so it can change even more) so take care about value first.

- **Light values** - more light > more contrast > brain faster recognize in perfect conditions we have balance because of eye adaptation.
- **Atmosphere changed value** and add depth  (far less contrast and lighten , near local value and darker)
- **Local values** - Different materials have local values  cause of color.
but you need to have harmony in values to  communicate forms. if good and clear local values  you can read nicely even in flat lighting

## Silhouette
Shape recognition -
For characters in fog you should add value to character or highlight behind (to show silhouette  (its cheaper to do than expose whole character ))- common technique

siluethe - most important to catch audience
secondery details. - constructing and build (contribute)silhuette not defining. (policzalne) you will recognize things by sec details (what design is)
third lvl details - support , refinement [nie ma  wpływu na sill] small zdobienia  (niepoliczalne) (not recognizing design by those details, uzupełniaja ksztaly )
(mogą sie zagniezdzać lvl 4, 5...)

## Paint Skin
   - `sun damage`, `blue veins face / forehead`, `petechiae / freckles`, `wrinkles / ance`  

- face color zones
old men vs young woman
- czoło żółte. mniej ukrwione
- chicks more blood (w zimie rumience)
- chick and chin more gray
- ucho, nos,  bardziej czerwone


# Sculpt
Sculpting is about volume, form and silhouette.  

   - `silhouettes` > `Medium Frequencies` > `Detail`      
   - Varies details placement.     
   - Sculpt across the form (not with the flow).    
   - Don't use smooth.       
   - Directionality  
   - Maintain Volume



# Character
      - layers: `skeletal`, `muscle`, `fat`, `skin`  
      - proportions  
      - character  

   face, eyes, hads,





---



[book: Feininger -  Principles of Composition in photography]
