---
title: Camera
description: Physical camera.
categories:
- ART
tags:
- Physics
- Art
- Data
- Science
---





# Camera

### Shutter Speed (exposure time) in s
(1 / Time) = Fraction of a Second
### Aperture (f-number , f-ratio, f-stop)
>f-ratio is Focal length to the diameter of the entrance pupil. f/4 big hole - f/16 small   
The f-number is reciprocal of the relative aperture f/N   
Determines the depth of field  

focal length (distance from film to  center (?? aperture))  DIVIDE BY:  f number (diameter of smallest hole)  
f=135mm / 2.8 f-number = 48.2mm  

in full frame cam is better shallow dof

#### EV sunny 16
-  More or less each stop in aperture increase (i.e., decreasing the f-number), the exposure time has to be halved:
iso `100` shutter `1/100` , iso `200` shutter `1/200`, iso `800` shutter `1/1000`  
- Values for direct sunlight apply between approximately two hours after sunrise and two hours before sunset, and assume front lighting. As a rough general rule, decrease EV by 1 for side lighting, and decrease EV by 2 for back lighting.


f/N | Conditions | Shade | Size | DOF |
--- | --- | --- | --- |   ---  |  
f22 | Snow | |	° | Sharp Image - ∞  |
f/16 | Sunny | shard shadows |	&#9900; |
f/11 | Slight Overcast | soft shadow  | 	&#9900;		|
f/8 | Overcast | minimal shadow  | 	&#9675;	|
f/5.6 | Heavily Overcast | no shadows |  	&#9675;
f/4 | Rain/Shade/Sunset | | &#9711;	|
f/2.8 | Dusk | | &#9711;	| More DOF / Shallow distance

### ISO
>In modern cameras dont have connection with noise level

High ISO:  
- Increase image brightness
- Decrees dynamic range
- Decrees tonal detail and accuracy

High ISO use case if u need:  
- Short shutter speed (motion blur concerns)
- Smaller Apertures (DOF Concerns)


### Exposition Values
Combinations of shutter speed and f-number  EV = log^2 * (aperture^2/shutter speed s.) Each increment of 1 in exposure value corresponds to a change of one stop EV100 = ( log2(Aperture² / (Shutter Speed) * 100 / ISO) )  

- `EV`  - Eye 20 f-stops / best cams 16 / DSLR - up to 13  



# Lens

The `Nodal Point` of the lens (or more correctly, the entrance pupil) can be considered as the point at which the rays entering the lens converge. It can also be considered as the center of perspective of the lens or the apparent pupil.

Standard lens change image while focus change. Still lenses `primes` - without zoom are more stable, and can compensate image on focus change to maintain stability. Zoom lenses are hard to make


Focal Length in mm. (how much lens will be zoomed)

mm | -  | Usage | Cons |
--- | --- | --- | --- |
8-24 | Ultra Wide Angle | Architecture | Distort facial features, and perspective
24-35 | Wide Angle  |
35-70 | Standard  | Closely reproduce what eye see |
70-105 | Mild Telephoto  | Portrait |
105-300 | Telephoto |   |
300+  |  Extreme  |  Wildlife | Cons: Large f-num

##### Crop Factor Sensor
35 mm - full frame  

##### Image characteristic

- `Bokeh` -  Quality of out of focus highlights and rest of image (can be falloff (smooth), even or inverted falloff (old styled))
- `Chromatic Abberation` - Caused by Dispersion. diff in speeding of different light lengths  (on big highlight or out of focus areas)   blue is bend more strongly than G
- `Spherical Abberation` - Ghost Glow (soft image on sharp mixed error) when wide open  hard to make inside and out same point of focus  
- `Distortion` - Most in super wide  (barrel distortion) or long (pincushion) lenses. (Difference in magnification between center and outside edges)
- `Sharpness` -

correct through distortion and aberration maps provided by producent    
- `Lend Flares` (inner reflections in lenses depend on arrangement in lens construction)

-`Vignetting` -
- Micro contrast  
- Focus speed


# Light

### Polarization
>Sun Light bulbs , `Candle` are unpolarized. After bounce its reflection is partially or fully polarize. And can be clamped by filter.
1 EV cost of filter

Cross Polarization:  
>polarize before it reflect on surface and second time after  to secure color without any reflections  

# Film
> Places where is lot of light  chemicals form crystals and film become less transparent to light resulting negative.

Film response to light not linear way, (CCD can produce it), but most films have s-curves and we can recognize them by specification of film.  In film curve we have more detail in curves, more realistic. !!  (nice roll of in brights)


# Programs

###### S Shutter Priority
for sport and wildlife
###### A Aperture Priority
for landscape and portraits
###### Auto
Quick  
