---
title: Lighting

categories:
 - ART
tags:
- Light
- Art
description: RAW NOTE ! Natural and studio setups.
permalink: /lighting/
---




# Light Source Properties



|||
|---|---|
Primary |  Direct
Secondary | Indirect   

[Light Data](/light/)


## Intensity
How strong source is.
TO define shape we need blackness.
- **how bright / dim** - how much visibility we have
- **consistency** -


## Distance
- **Close** moze miec mnimejsza intensity i ma fallof wiekszy (szybciej i wyrazniej zanikanie widać z odległością) (Soft shadows, Less contrst, less edge definition ) rembrant more
- **Far** zwiekszyc intensywnosc ale wtedy fallofu nie widać bo jest na wiekszych odleglosciach cien jest mniejszy i im dalej od swiatła tym ostrzejsze cienie zzeby oswietlic. rembrant raczej blisko  gradienty (Hard shadow, deep contrast, sharper edge) less intymate more tention. Background brighter.   

## Scale
Wielkosc swiatła nie zmienia fallofa  tylko ostrosc cieni.
- **Big** swiatła da wieksze gradienty cienia ale nie ma gradientu jasnosci

SOFTNESS  ! of shadow -

## Direction
front / top / back .  
have impact on shadow.

## Shape

## Color

**White balance**  
**light temperature**  

 for natural light sources
(light RGB primes. Addative )

can transfor enviroment  

## Movement
to indicate life


## Polarization


##### Not polarized
  - Sun Light, bulbs, Candles are unpolarized.


#####  Polarized
  - Studio setup with filters



##### Partially
  - Reflection (water,.. ) therfore can be partially clamped by filter
  - Sky - can be used to darken the sky in photographs, increasing the contrast. (due to sunlight scattered by aerosols)
  - Punkt neutralny nieba - sa 4 punkty. wszystkie leza na lini (pod nad słoncem, i 3 po przeciwnej stronie na wysokosci slonca, 4 punkt pod horyzontem(punkt antysloneczny (tylko na duzej wysoikosci jak slonce jest nisko))) wzorzec polaryzacyjny nawet jak słonce za chmurami.
  - crystal -  frozen ice crystals, which are seen here beginning to form as the water freezes. Under polarized light the ice appears to have many colors within it. The colors are due to the ice crystals being birefringent in polarized light.
  - tensions on translucent materials

##### Cross Polarization  
polarize before it reflect on surface and second time after  to secure color without any reflections  
1 EV cost of filter



------------



# Material  Properties
**Specular**     Highlights and reflection important,  
**Translucent**      
**Refraction**      

------------



# Shadows


------------



# Light Setup Phraseology

||||
|---|---|---|
Key light |  | direct
Rim light |  light around the edges of a subject | back edges
Diffuse light | that is scattered | softer
Fill light | used to reduce the contrast | diffused
Ambient  | Indirect  | diffused
Bounced  | Indirect moon ( fog and snow, lot of bounce)


   - High-key (light), Low-key (dark)
   - Unmotivated Light - Support light that doesn't have a physical representation.
   - one eye must be stronger

---

# Natural Light Setup

**Mid day** - 8 am - 3-4 pm most dificult short shadows high caontrast.  
**Golden hour** -  
**Night** - in cinematography we are threating night as is a day so background still lighter than foreground , (in reality farther darker cause is dark)  


#### Atmosphere
Azimuth - Horizontal angle of the sun’s position.  
Zenith - Vertical angle of the sun’s altitude.  

Lowering contrast and saturation over distance, make color more like sky  
Skylight intensity is relative to the HDR  
Light - Radius and intensity keep both together. Mini roughness light without reflections

|Direct lighted vs shaded intensity ratio   | |
|---| -- |
|~4:1 |sun/sky
|~3:1 |sunrise/sunset  
|~2:1 |overcast

You can measure that by looking at a white surface with sun on it, and adding a shadow casting object then comparing the brightness of the lit to the shadowed areas. Modify skylight until its around 25% the value of the sun. Convert to linear space if comparing in screens photoshop. (adjustment->levels and set the midpoint to 0.4545).

#### Shafts

---

# Studio Light Setup
### Light types
- Flesh in camera: electric discharg lamp . tube of gas high voltage short time . high CRI  and: ~5500K. lik day light..
- IES. profiles




### Light scenarios



- key light
- bounce light (with reflectors)
- rim light
- backlight - to show silhouette
- negative fill - dark and shadow

Light | Where |How |Effect|
-- | -- |-- |-- |
Flat | Sit-coms, passport, news | Lack personality. One straight
Butterfly | | front top. Highlight chic bones Small shadow under nose | Women
Frankenstein | Horrors | from bottom - unnatural (or to much butterfly from top ) |Not natural
Split | Caravaggio  |upper Side: One side black, other in light | Dramatic
|Rembrandt | Side but: nose shadow touch chick and eye make light triangle.(eyes more to the light than carrav)
Loop  || Side but:  nose shadow almost touch chicks shadow.
Back side | | Subject z boku swiatło z boku z tyłu
Broad side | | looks more 3d z przedniej storny jak patrzysz na bok
Checkerboard | | on face from right background left  
Background ||



**Three-point lighting**
It consists of a bright
main light coming from one side, dim
fill light coming from the opposite
side, and a back light behind the
subject, which is used to pick out
edges and highlight form. larger, softer lights the technique of
three-point lighting was abandoned,


---

# Stage Light Setup

#### DMX
- Multiplexing Data Transmision  
  - 1 dmx - 512 channels (dmx universe)  
  - 1 controler can controll multiple universes  
- **Dip Switch** or **Digital Readout** - to set adress of light  

---

# Virtual Light Setup

[Unreal Lighting](/u4light/)  


##  Scenarios

scenarios:
- like cyberpunk lot of small and colors
- visible (practical) and invisible (for fill)
- hard direct / rozproszony. Shiluetes instead of shadow
- help to emphesise shiluetes, movements and focus
- usualy warm colors near and cold away
- more light u have lkess color saturation
