---
title: Camera
description: Physical camera data
categories:
- ART
tags:
- Physics
- Art
- Physical data
- Science
permalink: /camera/
---


# Camera

## Shutter Speed
Exposure time in seconds.

|s |  | |
|--- | --- | --- |  
|1/4000-1000 | Fast | Freez Motion, Less light
|1/250 |medium |
|1/60-125| medium
|1/15-30| slow | night photos
|1/2 | | Blurs Motion, More light
|>1




## Aperture
**F-number** / **F-stop** /  **F-ratio** is Focal length to the diameter of the entrance pupil. f/4 big hole - f/16 small   

 are actually ratios. They are derived from focal length divided by the diameter of your aperture f/N

f/N | Conditions | Shade | Size | DOF |
--- | --- | --- | --- |   ---  |  
f22 | Snow | |	° | Sharp Image - ∞  |
f/16 | Sunny | shard shadows |	&#9900; | Narrow
f/11 | Slight Overcast | soft shadow  | 	&#9900;		|
f/8 | Overcast | minimal shadow  | 	&#9675;	|
f/5.6 | Heavily Overcast | no shadows |  	&#9675;
f/4 | Rain/Shade/Sunset | | &#9711;	| Wide
f/2.8 | Dusk | | &#9711;	| More DOF / Shallow distance

## ISO
In modern cameras dont have connection with noise level

High ISO:  
- Increase image brightness
- Decrees dynamic range
- Decrees tonal detail and accuracy

High ISO use case if u need:  
- Short shutter speed (motion blur concerns)
- Smaller Apertures (DOF Concerns)


## EV
Combinations of shutter speed and f-number  **EV = log^2 * (aperture^2/shutter speed s.)** Each increment of 1 in exposure value corresponds to a change of one stop EV100 = ( log2(Aperture² / (Shutter Speed) * 100 / ISO) )  

- `EV` depth
 - Eye 20 f-stops  
 - Best cameras 16
 - DSLR - up to 13  



### Sunny 16
-  More or less each stop in aperture increase (i.e., decreasing the f-number), the exposure time has to be halved:
iso `100` shutter `1/100` , iso `200` shutter `1/200`, iso `800` shutter `1/1000`  
- Values for direct sunlight apply between approximately two hours after sunrise and two hours before sunset, and assume front lighting. As a rough general rule,
 - decrease EV by 1 for side lighting,  
 - decrease EV by 2 for back lighting.



# Lens
Affects: Aperture / DOF / Focus speed / How much light enter sensor.

Lens types:
- **Standard lens** - change image while focus change.  
- **Still lenses primes** - without zoom are more stable, and can compensate image on focus change to maintain stability. Zoom lenses are hard to make  
- **Tilt shift lens**. A tilt shift lens distorts perspective, making things look smaller than they really are—almost as if they are toys.



## Focal Length
How much lens will zoom. (distance from film to  center (?? aperture))  DIVIDE BY:  f number (diameter of smallest hole)   f=135mm / 2.8 f-number = 48.2mm  


Focal Length| Type  | Usage | Cons | |
--- | --- | --- | --- | -- |
8-24mm | Ultra Wide, Angle Fisheye | Architecture | Distort facial features, and perspective
24-35mm | Wide Angle |
35-70mm | Standard  | Closely reproduce what eye see || Human eye ~50
70-105mm | Mild Telephoto  | Portrait |
105-300mm | Telephoto |   |
300+  |  Extreme, Macro  |  Wildlife | Cons: Large f-num |  Far away so flat


## Image characteristic

correct through distortion and aberration maps provided by producent   

- **Bokeh** -  Quality of out of focus highlights and rest of image (can be falloff (smooth), even or inverted falloff (old styled))
- **Chromatic Aberration** - Caused by Dispersion. diff in speeding of different light lengths  (on big highlight or out of focus areas)   blue is bend more strongly than G
- **Spherical Aberration** - Ghost Glow (soft image on sharp mixed error) when wide open  hard to make inside and out same point of focus  (optical axies is moved in corners depend of shape of lens and lens material )
- **Distortion** - Most in super wide  (barrel distortion) or long (pincushion) lenses. (Difference in magnification between center and outside edges)
- **Sharpness** -
- **Lens Flares** (inner reflections in lens system  depend on arrangement in lens construction)
- **Vignetting** -
- **Micro contrast**  




## Crop Factor
Focal length multiplier.
Ratio of the dimensions of a camera's imaging area compared to a reference format of 35 mm - (full frame Sensor). Full frame cam have better shallow DOF
Bigger factor > bigger zoom


## Nodal Point
of the lens (or more correctly, the entrance pupil) can be considered as the point at which the rays entering the lens converge. It can also be considered as the center of perspective of the lens or the apparent pupil.


# Film
Places where is lot of light  chemicals form crystals and film become less transparent to light resulting negative.

Film response to light not linear way, (CCD can produce it), but most films have s-curves and we can recognize them by specification of film.  In film curve we have more detail in curves, more realistic. !!  (nice roll of in bright)




Film - light response. `Diagram of irradiance` . and intensity on sencores.  Kodak KAD2001 CCd most thrue,  most of films have toe and .... S-curves.  with easy in on brights highlights (highlights compression). More details on bright light so you can put stronger light  >


# Auto modes

###### S Shutter Priority
for sport and wildlife
###### A Aperture Priority
for landscape and portraits
###### Auto
Quick  




# Tech

- ETTR - Expose to the right (as much light as possible )

# Directing






## Subject matter
Have a Subject Matter

- `Focal point`, composition lines (but its not true that they lead eye (physically) its not literally its only specializing abstract concept ). If character in scene, focal point is where is head or where he look.


## Dynamism
Dynamic vs static  
- dynamism: moment just `before action`, `during`, `after`
- Visual flow `Lateral Updraft`, `Bouncing`, `Stuck in vortex`, `Swipe and repeat`, `Chutes n ladders`, `Splitting atom`   
youtu.be/wBA_qGRqd20?t=267


## Point Of View


##### Position
  - human camera: on Eye level, or below when showing vista.
  - horizon on the shot
  - when for human shot, bellow or above, will characterize shot .

  
##### Perspective      
FOV
games 60 ,
concept art design 90-120 FOV (;ems 35 or smaller up to 8) (to show more even in small spaces )
Console optimized for tv far away
Pc FOV higher because is closer to eyes



## Framing
Composition  
- **Depth**  mid : subject matter, back : context
- **Edges**
     - Occur in: `Object`, `Plane` or `Color`  
     - Types:  `Hard`, `Soft`, `Lost`
     - Avoid: (tangents) `Hidden`, `Skimmed`, `Fused`, `Stolen`
- **Crop**
     - can be indicated by shadow,
     - character can bye cropped by item
     - by edge of canvas
- **Rule of 3rd**  
- **Golden ratio** `sectio aurea` a+b/a = 1.618 φ  - golden spiral is a logarithmic spiral whose growth factor is φ  



- closeup for emotions
- wide for intor and wide action

## Cinematography
https://chrisbrejon.com/cg-cinematography/appendix-1-guerilla-render-in-production/
Cinematic Visual Language

### FPS
23.98
29.97
59.94
120

### Camera  
   - Depth, Framing, Cropping, FOV
   - Avoid unnecessary moves, unwanted obj cutouts.   
   - `Depth of Field` `Grain` `Bloom`

### Editing
   - J cut - sound precedes the cut  - smooth scene introduction
   - B-Roll - video footage that sets the scene, reveals details, or generally enhances the story
   - Eye Trace - being aware of where the audience's eyes are looking
   - 180 axes of action indicate on the screen
   - 45 Degrees at least when 2 cuts showing same obj
   - It’s easy to cut between close and wide angles
   - Cut on Motion / Cut on Similar Elements

### Trailers
more filmmaking / performance than gameplaying .
- visual feedback  (how easy is to see change and understand)
- camera distance
- number of objects - Readability
- intentionality of shots
- Audience familiarity with subject. or required knowledge

Direction / cameras / puppeteers
- are u capture as player or 3rd person
- you can eye trace for shot cuts: u don't have to move your eyes to much
- cam movement can a character. Speed of camera tells a lot character
- controllers are best for slow movements
- use metronome when playing to the music     

Hollywood scenario:
- introduction
- reviel early
- vfx shotwith music
- character hopefully looking
- quick slide show
- clip of sth bad
- vfx shots
- scene with doubt about main character fate
- vfx money shot
- title

### Choreography / Scenography

# Compression
H.264 -  
ffmpg -  
https://github.com/Aeoll/FFmpegify  

>Progressive scan (no interlacing) / High Profile / 2 consecutive B frames /  Closed GOP. GOP of half the frame rate. / CABAC  /  Variable bitrate. No bitrate limit required, though we offer recommended bit rates below for reference /  Chroma subsampling: 4:2:0 \ Recommended video bitrates for HDR uploads:

- 2160p (4k)	44-56 Mbps (24-30k)	66-85 Mbps (60k)  

Type	Audio Bitrate  
- Stereo	384 kbps  
- 5.1	512 kbps  


---
Light Science & magic: An Inttroduction to Photofraphic Lighting
