---
title: World Design
description: Lore, Peace, Geology, Civilisation
categories:
  - ART
tags:
  - Design
  - Gameplay
  - Cognition
  - GameDev
permalink: /lore/
aliases:
  - lore
---
> [[09-01-01-Narratology]]  [[09-01-01-Ludology]]  [[08-01-01-GameDesign]]  [[12-01-01-LevelDesign]]  [[13-01-01-Architecture]]



borders / trades  / transport 





Worldbuilding Genres : 
- Science Fiction Hard (scientific acucracy, plasauble tech develop, ) vs Soft (social, psycho, philo) (CP)
- Fantasy, Low vs High
- Alternate history 




origin of the world begining of the world 
how creatures come drom 

# Lore

The backstory created around a fictional universe should provide believable and convincing settings, which should intertwine with design and gameplay assumptions. Everything is adffectred by cuyltuiral and biological pressure, they dont exist in vacuum (feeding, reproducing).   
**Holon** represents a way to overcome the dichotomy between parts and wholes. Koestler's Holon Simultaneously Whole & Part.
- Multiple co-existing rules.
- Rules for all characters must be the same. A consistent world is a believable world.
- We are in our cultural bubble so its easy to slip of with our cultural point of view and embed them into the fictional worlds.
- Further to future more detailed designs
- Gaps in the world allow players to participate in its existence. When details are ambiguous, people will fill them in themselves, driven by curiosity. Hard vs soft World Design.
  - hard [rules consistency transparency realism ]explain everything < immerse by place in believable and grounded world
  - soft [unknown flexible rules imaginative involvement]situational that are convincing independent of logic telling all logic behind will destroy the curiosity [i.e. story from child perspective should be somehow naïve and not fully logical ]

# Pace

## Pace layers
Make story on various level of magnification
Every world is holistic system At multiple scales (Consistency  Believability)

#### Peace size scale
- Human world: `Self`/`Individual (character)`, `Family (Home, environment)`, `Community`, `Others (Citizens)`, `World`, `Cosmos`  
- Human organism: `Organism` > `Organs` > `Tissues` > `Vells` > `Organelles` > `Molecules` > `Atoms`


#### Paces time scales
Pace scales by _Stuart Brand  and (architect Frank Duffy)_ - Six layers that function simultaneously at different speeds within society

|Years | Stuart Brand layer | Function | Frank Duffy | Bourdieu|
| - | - | - | - | - |
|0|Fashion, Art | Innovate (New Ideas, competitive) | Stuff (Sets changes)| Events
|5|Commerce | Differentiation (better ideas, unique process)| Space Plan (Furniture changes)|
|15|Infrastructure | Record (slow, incremental, preservation, efficiency, common ideas) | Service (pipes and maintenance )| Economic / Society
|70|Governance | | Skin, (human)|
|100|Culture |  | Structure (building )|
|forever | Nature |  | Site (place, )| Environment




**Economy cycle**
- 10 years - credit cycle - crisis    
- 100 years - world power cycle: reserve currencies `1450 Portugal` > `1530 Spain` > `1640 nith` > `1720 Fr` > `1815 GB` > `1944 US` > `crypto`
- 1000 years - governance of humanity cycle: `Tribes`  > `Religions` > `Kingdoms` > `Governance`

**Speed of change**

| | | | |
| - | - | - | - |
| Fast | Discontinues | absorb shock, learn, innovation, revolution | Has all the attention
| Slow| Continuous | integrate shock, constraint, consistency | Has all the power

# Structures


- **Structure** - Matter
- **Information** - Genetics
- **Energy** - Metabolism

#####  Pathetic Dot Theory
 _Lawrence Lessig_ It discusses how lives of individuals (the pathetic dots in question) are regulated by four forces:
- **Law** - threatens sanction if it is not obeyed.
- **Market** - supply and demand
- **existing conditions**- Technology, biology, geography, technology and others constrain our actions.
- **Cultural Norms** - enforced by the community

#####  lex McDowells Mandala
- Disruption - what if   
- Context - where   
- Ecologies - social/ mental / physical urban planning   
- Domains / sub - transports system / fashion / technologies    

.
- system   
- location   
- maker   
- body   
- culture   

.
- **Self** (culture, history)
- **Body** (structure terrain)  
- **Mind** (Governance > economic)
- **Fuel** (Energy> Resources)

##### G.R.A.P.E.S.
- **Geography**
- **Religion**
- **Achievements**
- **Politics**
- **Economy**
- **Social**

# Geography
Condition and adaptation to explore and source energy.
Spices tend to get out of natural boundaries and limitations, and sometimes idiosyncrasies - past social pressures which are presently outdated.




## Planet 

### Tectonic Plates 
Planet required hot core with cool surface for tectonic to occur. 
Planets lithosphere divisions into plates that slowly move. 
- Rules of division. No more than 3 plates interact with each other (no 4 corners junctions).
https://web.archive.org/web/20141202090712/http://experilous.com/1/blog/post/procedural-planet-generation
|  |  |  |
| ---- | ---- | ---- |
| Convergent | Ocean - Land | Trenches, earthquakes, volcanoes, mountains |
|  | Ocean - Ocean | Trenches, earthquakes, volcanoes, island   |
|  | Land - Land | Trenches, earthquakes, volcanoes, island |
| Divergent | Ocean - Ocean | Volcanoes, ridge, rift valley,  colacanic islands |
|  | Land - Land | Earthquakes, rift valley, volvanoes |
| Transform | Ocean - Ocean | Earthquakes |
|  | Land - Land | Earthquakes |
https://www.youtube.com/@Artifexian/videos

 Earth like should be mostly under water. How much water.
 


### Water Current 
### Glaciations 
- are heavy and they move 
- how far they extended 


## Ecosystems    
- plants > get energy from sun  > bugs eat plants  > lizard eat bugs.   
- find niche and adapt.  shifting landscape of available niches and adaptations that find opportunities. (evolutionary pathway)  
- simple systems have problem with less potential of emergence   
- i.e.: planet rotate slowly force to migrate society every few decades

**Climatology & Atmosphere**  
- Impacto of climate
- Impact of weather
- Impact of seasons


**Geophysical / Terrain**   
- Geomorphology
	- mountains are less accessible. 
- Hydrology
- Tectonics
- Gravity


## Biosphere
- predators competitor
- strategies of survive


### Diversity

#### Identities:
ethnic/ gender / nationality

#### Spieces classification

Invertebrates
Fish
Amphibians
Reptiles
Birds
Mamas

## Resources
- export/ import
- natural resources
- chance of survival
- food sources, water sources

# Civilizations

## History
https://mythologian.net  

## Society

Groups hierarchy: `individual` > `communal` > `societal` > `civilizational`  
Groups share traits > lead to stereotypes

## Culture
Art and Culture

### Language
- Communication - Text, Fonts, letters
- Epigraphy
  - decode ancient records https://www.dcode.fr/cistercian-numbers
- Naming
  - simple proper descriptive nouns.  
  - neologisms - new worlds. (jedi -not knight not monk, something in between) on the other side you can use.
- Gestures


#### Creating language

**Conlang** - constructed language 
Who is going to speak this lang. What culture is (to reflect)

Basic steps 
1. what sounds 
2. 2 some words 
3. create grama 
4. form modern from proto




20-30 sounds 
- hawaiian rotokas mohhawk - mało literek  

Sound symmetry -  it should go with series 

| Where in mouth sound is produced                | label (front lips) | Dental | Alveolar |     | Retroflex | post- | Velar | Uvular | Glottal (back) |
| ----------------------------------------------- | ------------------ | ------ | -------- | --- | --------- | ----- | ----- | ------ | -------------- |
| Stop  (completley obstructing air flow)         | pa                 |        | ta       |     |           |       | ka    |        |                |
| Fricative (small gap)                           |                    |        | sa       |     |           |       |       |        | ha             |
| Affricative (as stop then release as fricative) |                    |        | tsa      |     |           | cha   |       |        |                |
| Nasal (nose)                                    | ma                 |        | na       |     |           |       |       |        |                |
| Liquid (change in contour in air wavelenghth)   |                    |        | ra       | la  |           | ja    | wa    |        |                |
|                                                 |                    |        |          |     |           |       |       |        |                |

Vowel system:

| vowel |     |     |     |
| ----- | --- | --- | --- |
| hi    | i   |     | u   |
| mid   | e   |     | o   |
| low   |     | a   |     |

Basic world order: 

Subject - Object - Verb ~45%(Latin, Japanese, Turkish, Hindi)
Subject - Verb - Object ~42% (English, French, Russian, Malay)


Adjectives from noun or wfrom werbs 
 - good neither noun or verb - proto-indo-european 
 - 


https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=FHK1gO2Mh68&list=PL6xPxnYMQpqsooCDYtQQSiD2O3YO0b2nN

### Media
### Education

### Philosophy

#### Believes

- Symbolism
- Traditions and knowledge on a subject or held by a particular group,
- Gods, Practices, Myths, Legends, Rituals (rites of passage), Ideals

#####  Religion  
Shape of god reflect values of society / natural phenomena's (understanding world by society ). There is no clear interpretation (its not a logic)
   - **Monotheism**: centralized larger power structure
   - **Polytheism**: A less unified and centralized. can split powers to different societies and human needs. anyone can find sth for him. In catholicism saints have this role. different roles
   
What worship Our civilization worship sun and sky because they give us life. Maybe something else is essential to live style i.e.: In dune they worship worms, there is no reason to worship sky or sun it give them nothing.

- territory, num of believers, how old


## Power
abstract categorization of actions based on aspects of national power. Each categorization
- Diplomatic, Informational, Military, and Economic - is an instrument of national power (IOP).
- Geography



### Politics

### System of governance
Social, dem. fascist, kingdom, federation

#### Empires
enormous powers.
Some of pillars of empire stability:
1. communication - how effective between:
 - gov - gov
 - gov -cit - policy, propaganda, reforms,
 - cit -cit

2. control
 - terror - but leave question about rebellion prisons and incentives to coop.  not lasted long in world
 - security - is reason to be part of empire
 - control resources ??
 - ppl have different reason (bribe, security, religion)
 - propaganda (1984) manufactured stories
 - self governance & sovereignty -
 - stimulation - make them want to be part like religion./ sport  

3. commerce
 - local economic stability

#### Monarchy
- Successive monarchy. - Mostly patrilinear primogeniture(eldest son inherent) root ed in traditional role of warior.



### Legal system
Laws
- System of governance
- How law correlated
- How law enforced
- How power changed
- class sysetm / casts




### Class division

Fractions / Houses / Class / casts   
wealth, power and status.   
historic context   
tribes   
what are bariers to change class ?


### Military


Functions of military formations
- infantry, heavy, air
- tactics - terain dominance covers

- tension between cultural systems.


### Social Systems


## Economy

resources
supplies
import/export
trade ?
how wealthy society is


#### Market Sectors

| | | |
|--|--|--|
|Materials |cyclical| fluctuate much, predictor
|Industrials| cyclical, sensitive | provide serv to oher companies (midle in pref)
|Financials |cyclical | very cicl , very volitle , high rebo
|Info tech| cyclical, sensitive | it, semi > growth only in good times
|Consumer discretionary | cyclical | want but not need > starbuks first to cut > higher return
|Consumer staples| defensive | need to buy like toilet pap.
|Energy| defensive, sensitive | oil gas
|Healthcare| defensive |
|Communication services| defensive, sensitive | google >
|Utilities| defensive |
|Real estate| all |

- cyclical - depend on economy .
- defensive: -

### Logistic

Transportation
Tall buildings ?


## Science


`science` > `engineering` > `building`  

######  Loop Innovation
 Communications Medium as Process loop  
`Culture` > `Laws` > `Economy` > `User Experience` > `App Code` > `OS Code` > `Hardware` & `Tech Architecture`

Hardware & Tech Architecture:  
- Emerging Tech Provides New Affordances >     
- Creators Explore New Affordances >  
- Distributors Provide Channels For Audiences to Access New Work >  
- Audience learn grow to watch new work & Provide feedback >  

###### Adaptation of Innovation

- **Innovators** 2.5%    
- **Early Adopters** 13.5%  / People who want complete solutions  ! Crossing the Chasm
- **Early majority** 34%  
- **Late majority** 34%  
- **Laggards** 16%   

######  Gartner Hype Cycle

.... Current state of innovation.


## Technology
Technology advancement
- `Agriculture` > `Hunter Gatherers` > `Self-sufficient` > `Synthetic`
- `Settlers` > `Conquest` > `Trade` > `Prosperity` > `Reason` > `Collapse`



### Industrial Revolutions

|.| | | |
|---|---|---|---|
|Primitive |Nature| Fire |up to 400,000
|**Agriculture** || wooden plow, new horse-drawn threshers, grain and grass cutters, cultivators, rakes, and the labor-saving corn shellers, first urbanisation
|**Metallurgy** || |3300 BCE bronze / 1200 BCE iron (Steel)
|**Transport** || Deep water navigation
|**Thermodynamic** |Machinery  | 1st revolution  Steam engine 1712 | 1797-1882
|**Electricity** |Wires  | 2nd revolution   Dynamo, Generators,  Electricity | 1800
|**Industrial**  || Combustion engine 1860-76 > Assembly line, Urbanisation | 1913
|**Calculation** |Digital  | 3rd revolution  Transistors  Computer, Internet, Globalization | late 20th
|**AI** ||  4th revolution Internet (information)  | 21th
||| 5th revolution Molecular fusion / quantum comp  / atomic lvl - brain net | Future
| Fiction | Magic ||


## Architecture



# Unnatural fiction
#### Magic
 - from thin air  

#### Alchemy
 - from other matter     

## Emulation of fictional events

## Utopia/Protopia


# Examples







### Old vs. New World
| | New continent  |Old continent |
|---|---|---|
|Expected to be | Hyperanimated, Self-inflated |
|Existence| Amazing | Hard
|Problem solving | Suppress | Emphasize
|Beauty |An end in itself|  Linked to suffering

### Eastern vs. Western
|  | Western | Eastern |
| ---- | ---- | ---- |
| Emphasis on | Object (tee) (nouns) | Subject (drinking) (verbs) |
| Struggle | External | Internal |
| Success | Material | Spiritual |
| Existence | Stationary | Arising |
| Emphases | Individuality | Oneness |
| Self portrait | Self assure | Humility |
| Reality | Separated physical and spiritual reality | One reality |
| Life Value | Human life above other life | All life may be viewed as sacred |
| The Divine | Apart from material and exists separately  from it | Part of creation and found it everywhere in it |
| God reveal | Supernatural magic tricks | Through nature, and ideas |
| Journey of mankind | Linear | Cyclical |
| Conflict | Central  conflict good vs evil Cultivate light and destroy dark | like magnet have 2 sides, interaction of opposites. |
| Goal | To deal with  sin and be reunited with god | deal with ignorance and achieve enlightenment. |
| God | One Purposeful Creator (design) | Many Buddhas (no purpose) |
|  | Interpretations | Empty mind, Avoid interpretation |
|  | Word (concept) is real | Fact is real |
|  | Western | Eastern |
| Lifestyle | single / family | society |
| Newcomer | outlayer | part of group |
| Speach | strait ahead | politeness |
| Money | Buisness | relationship is important |
| Punctuality | On time | not clear |
| Leadership | leader part of team (earned respect) (vocal) | Leader above (hierarchy) (silent) |


|              | 1984 / orwel        | Brave New World / Huxley        |
| ------------ | ------------------- | ------------------------------- |
|              | those who ban books | no reason to ban a book         |
| truth        | concealed from us   | drowned in a sea of irrelevance |
| culture      | captive             | trivial                         |
| control by   | inflicting pain     | inflicting pleasure             |
| will ruin us | what we ffear       | what we desire                  |



# Hard questions
- Free will vs. determinism
  - matrix / kalvinist vs armenian
  - Quantum probabilistic Universe:  is probabilistic but not random? What did bother Einstein was the prospect of real indeterminism, built deep into the underlying laws of physics. This kind of indeterminism would make it impossible for even an all-knowing being to perfectly predict the outcome of any event.
  - Maybe living things are so unique because they don't fall under determinism
- Should you live for the present or work for the future.
  - Happiness is most important?
  - Freedoms self vs society
- Meaning
  - Is absolute truth possible / A perfect logos
  - Values and are you true to them
  - How to value beliefs.
  - Is there any purpose
  - Is categorizing burden or blessing
- Conscious
  - What mean be conscious
  - Are we biological machines ?
- Is time emergent or fundamental ?
- Life
  -  an organism's astonishing gift of controlling 'a stream of roder' on itself and thus escaping the decay into atomic haos.
  - existing order displays the power of maintaining itself and producing ordedly events.
- Solving stop problem - nie da się obliczyć czy algorytm się kiedyś skończy 


Political corectness - key post modern attribute - universalizing gesture - regresive 

https://para.wiki/w/Main_Page

**Books:**
> The art of gathering: how we meet and thy it matters bypriya parker

> On Writinbg and worldbuilding https://www.youtube.com/@HelloFutureMe


## Language: 
- created around culture and philosophy 

### Conlangs 
