---
title: Color
categories:
  - ART
tags:
  - Art
  - Design
description: Theory
permalink: /color/
aliases:
  - color
---
> [[17-01-01-Paint]]  [[21-01-01-Art]] [[20-01-01-VisualDesign]] [[19-01-01-Lighting]] [[16-01-01-VFX]] [[15-01-01-Fractals]] [[14-01-01-Procedural]] [[12-01-01-LevelDesign]] [[05-01-01-Camera]]

https://hg2dc.com/    

Better to overexpose as much as possible without clipping only with low dynamic range 


Complementary colors tend to vibrate. 
Way we percept colors are dependend on our biology 
certain colors pop up other going to back 
different value for different colors > some are brighter 


# Human Perception 

Human vision is not linear. By population, about 64% of the cones are red-sensitive, about 32% green sensitive, and about 2% are blue sensitive. The "blue" cones have the highest sensitivity and are mostly found outside the fovea.   

####  Human color perception
- People have trichromatic vision, where cone cells are sensitive to a breadth of wavelengths in the RGB spectrum. In this spectrum, the G and B receptors overlap more, leading to greater sensitivity (brighter).
- The environment makes a difference in how we perceive images, (considering factors such as monitor calibration and viewing conditions).
- The property possessed by an object is its ability to produce different sensations on the eye due to the way it reflects or emits light.
- [YT The Amazing Math behind Colors!](https://youtu.be/gnUYoQ1pwes?t=1086)   , [YT only Video](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=HKtTNOgfhAU), [YT Color](https://youtu.be/1i8s8knHFTs)
- Visible range is 400–700 nanometers (nm)  blue (S receptor)  + G (M receptor) & R (L receptor)
- 19% is middle gray

#### Theories:
- **Trichromatic Theory** - 3 cone types and combination let us see spectrum. (**RGB**)
- **The Opponent-Process Theory** - Complementarty to trichromatic. working in pares and complement each other. (**RGBY**) Inability to color combine. Oposites:  
 1. Collect all 3 type of cones and represent: `Yellow` + `Blue`  
 2. Collect info from red and green cones:  `Red` + `Green`
 visible in experiment: 'Color after image'.
- human better see darker colors

#### Perception
- some colors with same brightness have different values !!!
- brightes to darkest:     yellow > blue
- #### Optical Illusions https://michaelbach.de/ot/index.html
- #### Color blindness


## Additive and Subtractive.

- **RYB** - `Subtractive`. Mixing get darker (ink CMYK) Primary: `Red`, `Yellow`, `Blue` sec: `Orange` (Red+Yellow), `Purple` (Red + Blue), `Green` (Yellow + Blue). For mixing pigments and light filters.
- **RGB** - `Additive`. mixing get white  (light RGB) Primary: `Red`, `Green`, `Blue`, sec: `Cyan` (blue + green), `Magenta` (red + blue), `Yellow` (Red+green).  For Light. 
- 
----

# Digital  Representing

- **Gamut** /(of a device or process) is that portion of the color space that can be represented, or reproduced. Generally, the color gamut is ..
- **Color spaces** - In rendering colors are sometimes supersaturated. RGB cannot deal with it. Process those colors relayabley by transform fn
- **Spectral Locus** -  The curved edge of the gamut.  plotting all visible colors can show how much sRGB is limited. rec2020 (much vide color space)  



- Gamma encoding is applied to imgaes itself: sRGB. So pixel values dont represent light intensity.  
- classic workflow: ignore problem.
- linear workflow: before adjustment we are fixing data to linear.




- sRGB - on monitor looks like even distribution but is not / math in sRGB is not working
- linear - look vanished   
- 19% of light intensity is perceived by us as half . (and 50% of sRGB is 21% linear so after gamma applied is appealing and natural for eye)

#### Work with colors

for correction:
- wrong naming: Shadows / mid / light. Never use in linear !!!!
- for sRgb: Lift - mostly in darks / Gamma - mostly in midtones / Gain - mostly in ligt
- linear space: offset / power / slope.


## Color management
is about consistance.
- Displace how react to signal
- Software how is handle color

## Formats 
#### RGB  

- sRBG  - used for images online. Non linear (gamma 2.2 curve)
- Linear RGB 

#### HSV & HSL  
HSV blending is usually better, yes, but it has its share of problems too. not every pair of colors are neighbors
so you can end up transitioning through weird hues, also the V in HSV (or L in HSL) do not properly represent the true luminance of a color.
- They are not actually color spaces, they are ways of remapping RGB color spaces to parameters that are easier to work with.  
 - **HSV** to manage `Chroma` and `Valor` .   
   - `Hue` (0-360) - perceived colors. dependent on its dominant wavelength and independent of intensity or lightness. Hue is angle on circle on `Chromacity diagram` based on `CIR` based on `LMS` is white in middle. we calculate HSV from there.
   - `Saturation` (Chroma) (0-100) - the strength or dominance of the hue.  
   - `Value` (Valor) (0-100) -  Lightness/Luminance or darkness of the hue.
 - **HSL** to manage `Chroma` and `Lightness` .   
#### HCL
In HCL, the concept of "Chroma" is used instead of saturation. Chroma represents the colorfulness of a color, but it is more perceptually uniform than saturation. Perceptual uniformity means that a certain amount of change in chroma is perceived as the same amount of change in color,
#### Oklab
 photoshop “Perceptual”, is actually using Oklab
 Oklab space, above, is similar in that regard to HUSL - Human-friendly HSL
 but with much better methodology
- [YT Oklab](https://youtu.be/dOsp6u4bIwI)
#### ACES
- aces is linear with wide color gamut 

##### Painter: 
you need file `config.ocio` witth setup dfor every application . 
In painter OPEN IO 
https://youtu.be/WrFqBNI6Tx4

Solve:
- data sets to convert cameras from cameras.



----

# Color harmony
Avoid saturating to much Natural colors allow highlights to pop up. 

- Tonic - Main Color most important, defining a tone of image 
- Dominant -  Color that occupies the most space 
- Accent - topping 

Application of tonic dominant and accent: Rulle of Color Proportions 
- 60% - Primary (neutral dominant) 60 
- 30% - Neutral  (secondary)
- 10% - Accent



https://youtu.be/ruOWrEUDhcE
#### Some principles: 
- color temperature balance 
	- power of color varies by wavelength. longer wavelength grab more attention. in composition we strike for a balance 
- Color Compensation 
	- Only focal point have saturated warm colors. 
	- Colors with less intensity require less colors to compensate  
- Characteristics of light coloration 
	- GI 
- Color range
	- use onl;y half of color range 
- Color Transistions 
	- yellow and pink are far 
	- gray harmonize with all of colors 
- Color rhythm 
	- intriquet more advanced 
	- enreaching colors should not distort value 
- Theme Colors 
- value and contrast  < low will allow color to work more 




What we want to achieve: 
- striking color combinations 
- color balance 
- expressing emotions
-




######  Compose Patterns
- `Relative Luminance`: depend on how much receptors reacts: `Cyan` appear most light then: `Green` > `Yellow` > `red` > `blue` appear as darkest. (blue receptor response least)
- `Gray`s communicate with each other
- Color temperature  vs  neutral colors (W&B and gray)   
- `Natural` - not over saturated monochrome like not too much excitement. tend to gentle light gray
- `Value` high key painting has a `high-value` scale (light) vs `low-value` scale (dark).

###### Compose Colors

| | |
|-|- |
| `Monochrome` | 1 color.
| `Analogous`| Similar
| `Complimentary` | Opposites.  not both saturated. One should be desaturated
| `Split-Complementary` | (dominant & support + accent),
| `Triad`  |3 |
| `Tetradic` | 4   


######  Warm / Cold

###### Teal and orange


## Blending colors

You want to blend colors on hsv usually? And bspline not linear
[Gradients in linear space aren't better](https://aras-p.info/blog/2021/11/29/Gradients-in-linear-space-arent-better/)      
[Björn Ottosson](https://bottosson.github.io/) -     


## Blending color modes 



|         |     |
| ------- | --- |
| Lighter | Max |
| Darker  | Min |
blend in gradient to material = (gradient_curve * strength ) + ( (strength/2) * -1)




----



# VEX 

Color Randomizer
https://twitter.com/allexceptn/status/1439253876041998346

```
@Cd = rgbtohsv(@Cd);
@Cd.r += chf('rotateHue');
@Cd = hsvtorgb(@Cd);

vector orginalCd = @Cd ;

if (@Cd.g>(@Cd.b+@Cd.r)/2*chf('tol')){
    @Cd.g = (@Cd.b+@Cd.r)/2*chf('tol');
    }
else {
@Cd.g= @Cd.g;
}

@Cd==length(orginalCd=@Cd)*chv('tint')*chf('luma');

@Cd = rgbtohsv(@Cd);
@Cd.r += chf('rotateHue');
@Cd = hsvtorgb(@Cd);
```

saturation:

```
@Cd = length(@Cd)+((@Cd-length(@Cd))*chf('saturation'));
```

grading tool:

```
pow( (((((x-blackpoint) / (whitepoint-blackpoint) ) * ((gain*multiply)-lift)) +lift)+offset) , (1/gamma) )
```


----

# Symbolism / Color psychology 

- Culture play role in color perception.  Age / gender as well. 
- recognise  by crossmodal correspondence (affiliate color with world like hot red and cold blue ) visual perception connected to perc of temp. 
- synesthesia - asociate things with color 
- mcgunka effect - percive base on visuals 
- bouba kiki - interactive in way we hear names 
- 

| | | 
|--|--|
| B&W | death evil / good pure innocent divine
| Red | Passion Blood Love  Warning Danger  - stimulate most (forming memory loops)
| Yellow  | Cheery Warm Happy Energetic Excitement Change
| Green | Luck Growth Healing Health Nature Weath Tranquility 
| Blue | Security 
Roylaity luxury 
Brown Masculine serious 
black luxurious 


| | | 
|--|--|
| Pastele colors | Openness relaxation Calmnes - Soft feeling 
| Vivd(saturated) | Agressive Acctivity - Hard feeling 

Red button can be more effective even by 21% 

Warm colors - stimulators 
Cool colors - depresants 

----


# Palets

CIE
- normalized for luminnace



[David. J.C. Briggs, dimensions of Colour](http://www.huevaluechroma.com/) - wiki      
[Okhsv and Okhsl](https://bottosson.github.io/posts/colorpicker/) - Two new color spaces for color picking    
[YT SIGGRAPH University - "Applying Color Theory to Digital Media and Visualization"](https://youtu.be/KJv1N8akoUs)     
[In Depth Color technology](https://www.sciencedirect.com/topics/computer-science/color-matching-function)  - Color matching fn

https://www.alanzucconi.com/2016/01/06/colour-interpolation/     
https://www.vis4.net/blog/2011/12/avoid-equidistant-hsv-colors/   
https://hg2dc.com/   
