---
title: Art

categories:
 - ART
tags:
- Art
- Design
description: Paradigm
permalink: /art/
---

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=UgBfRYwymgg&ab_channel=Wisecrack
https://read.lukeburgis.com/p/our-mimetic-culture

# Attitude
STH TO SAY, THEME OR ISSUE.
game:  Experience/challenge (gameplay loop) +  Mystery

## Approach

- Find the most interesting `question` that you can barely answer.
- Don't save on means. Hardware and `tools` defining your way.  
- Make `notes` (with possible solutions).
- Even bad ideas can have nice `execution`
- `Learn` the rules like a pro, so you can break them like an artist. -  Picasso
- `Stories`:  we create value in things that have no inherent value. Whole art industry is based on deciding which canvas isvaluable, based on story.
- Ideas are beautiful when they realize the `premises`
- have a `singular goal` but in `team play`: u must have a charisma and luck to get everyone on board with a vision
- when intelectual framework of how thing are done is set u have a rapid progress  entering the new [paradigm] is  super hard...


## Mindset

- `Don't make excuses`.  
- `Understanding` Understand medium
- `Strong visual library` Help with finding patterns.
- `Practice` - training is the most efficient way to have progress
- `Perseverance`. Doing something despite difficulty or delay in achieving success)
- `Habits` help to free your mind of thinking about basics. Rhythms have benefits
- `Control attention span`. State of Mind. Breaths. Get into the zone.
- `Knowledge` , culture, anatomy, light, help with understanding to know what you want.
- if you want to be better you must accumulate a lot of training data to cancel wrong data, and you must pinpoint attention on things you want to improve so you can reinforce it.
- Reasoning  changes immediately with results, and doing next steps
- Protect time and space  you work
- hazards of "self-consciousness" when considering the key factors influencing a design.
- look at  big picture to see if major story points are clear
- Magic happen `out of comfort zone`
- How far is ceiling and then optimize  


## Planning  
- What's the focus of the image
- Check `anchors` and `restrictions`
- `constraints` can give objectives reason to implement solutions.
- Identify possible `obstacles` that can interrupt or slow you down.
- Use `limitations as strengths`.
- Make it `simple`, optimize.(simple rule > complicated behavior).  (keep things simple and complex)
- Work on main issues and resolve `core problems`.  
- Break `complex problems` into pieces. If u can quantify u can overcome it.
- `Pipelines` - to make data and information flow through easily and prevent bottlenecks.
- `Automate` processes. Keep things `procedural` as long as you can for quick fixes.
- `tools` to organize and automate make it easier
- Have a `crumple zone` to be able to reduce scope.
- `R'n'D` - Set `end goal`, gather `references`, build `prototype`, iterations `refine`  
- Quid pro quo `time vs detail` precision and nuance creates fidelity
- Development means `Iterations`
- Road to first pixel / check your effect asap  to
- easy part is doing, hard part is planning.
- ideas are cheap

work
- deep work:  cognitively demanding task
- shallow work: logistical in nature. Responding

## [Artistic Merits](https://www.google.com/search?q=artistic+merits&oq=artistic+merits&aqs=chrome..69i57j0l4.3258j0j7&sourceid=chrome&ie=UTF-8)

`Form` + `Function` + `Content` < `Context` < Critical Approach
- Function over Form  - EASIER - (have silhouette / bbox and add details )
- Form over Function - HARDER - create new form from rules of how sth should work.

**Context** - Observe: - how things relate to each other  

### Frameworks
| [MDA](/ludology/) |  | |  [Architecture](/arch/)|  [Design Vitruvian triad](/graphicdesign/)| |
|--|--|--|--|--|--|
|Mechanics | Strategic | Rules | Firmitas (firmness) | Sustainable
|Dynamics | Systemic |  System | Utilitas (commodity) | Beneficial
|Aesthetic | Narrative |  Fun | Venustas (delight) | Attractive

#### aspects
- Style
- Comp
- Medium
- subject
- env / bcg
- light
- mood

---


art makeing internal > external  
art intentional bringing idea   

# Value of culture
Mental real estate ideas burned in your mind like mickey mouse  
Culture is spirit of society  
what is a cost of failure cayuse we fail until work is done

**Science Paradigm** - In science and philosophy, a paradigm is a distinct set of concepts or thought patterns, including theories, research methods, postulates, and standards for what constitutes legitimate contributions to a field.

Value of abstraction imagination.

- how in history determined what's beautiful > there was standard and consensus
- beauty specific to context and times one live, contingent not eternal.

Anything you went born knowing what to do oyu learned by culture.



###### Charles Pierre Baudelaire
was a French poet who also produced notable work as an essayist and art critic.

###### Kant
believes he can show that aesthetic judgment is not fundamentally different from ordinary theoretical cognition of nature, and he believes he can show that aesthetic judgment has a deep similarity to moral judgment. ...


- why art
- more alert present space
- bring attention
- creates vision
- pleasant psychology
- seen first time wander
- skill like knowing wins
- describe culture / create culture
- how define beauty  - study to aesthetics  biological thought ?


THINGS MENT TO BE EXPERIENCED, OR MENT TO BE CONSUME.
designing arranging framing
Mise en Scene -  what to include in scene and how to set  - storyteling in singl eimage  to build: who have power what is dynamic (without editing) but with music ect..

props, set design  costumes makeup color light blocking framing  lenses sound framereate music
montage - miningfull combinantion of justaposition of images


[Composition Camera](/camera/)  
[Color](/color/)  
[Modeling](/modeling/)  
[Sculpting](/sculpting/)    
[Characters](/characters/)  
[Lighting](/lighting/)  

### Words
[Inspiration.com](https://inspirassion.com)  -  
[Thesaurus.com](https://www.thesaurus.com/) -      
imporance of landscape in movies and arch.

trully innovating thing are deviciev
have a clear visioon

compressions and releases    
Witches Sabbath, Johfra Bosschart     


Canon - systerm or set of rules governing arts. Flexible but crucial

ART:

material culture OBJECTS
- sum of total culture products
- physical , manufact obnj utilitarian obj

visual culture  IDEAS
- sumo of total of how a culture vizualizes itself
- worldview/ religion / ethnicity, culture


How we value art pieces


for profit crap that are maby usefull, but whateva...


sense of plesure from self referencing signifires and mixing universes with cameos, - nostalgia n nowing but nothing new.

substitutions culture - holly wood


Hyper focus: priorities can get lost in the mids of dev when people are in to deep and there is no strong guiding vision often times obvious priorities can get obscure.

consistency are importatnt think
everyt in culture is part of hierarchy of yesterday, today and tommorow
easy to be skilled enough to take yesterday pictures. previous styles are technoclyu easy to mimic. that straisght forroward  but be one who establish the next phase takes leap.  Leap to far and tribe wont follow.

=====
Periods:
- 'isms'
Stylistic terms
- organic, abstract, realistic, idealistic, naturalistic, eprexionistic, impres.... (+ overlap of those terms)

kultury sie definiują przez hierarhie wartosci (co w jakich warunkach jest ważne)




# questions
- Free will vs. determinism
  - matrix / kalvinist vs armenian
  - Quantum probabilistic Universe:  is probabilistic but not random? What did bother Einstein was the prospect of real indeterminism, built deep into the underlying laws of physics. This kind of indeterminism would make it impossible for even an all-knowing being to perfectly predict the outcome of any event.
  - Maybe living things are so unique because they don't fall under determinism
- Should you live for the present or work for the future.
  - Happiness is most important?
  - Freedoms self vs society
- Meaning
  - Is absolute truth possible / A perfect logos
  - Values and are you true to them
  - How to value beliefs.
  - Is there any purpose
  - Is categorizing burden or blessing
- Conscious
  - What mean be conscious
  - Are we biological machines ?
- Is time emergent or fundamental ?
- Life
  -  an organism's astonishing gift of controlling 'a stream of roder' on itself and thus escaping the decay into atomic haos.
  - existing order displays the power of maintaining itself and producing ordedly events.

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ZNF1Aq3uY4g&list=PLjxfpwtKvIllqPSskUqvDDre1nTvrTrrf&index=17
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=OpeCrf-RzHU&list=OLAK5uy_ngJaXe_-6TCDVCCo_8iclaEIrBJEiEvAI

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=MABLFo7IV3I&list=PLCpMvp7ftsnIbNwRnQJbDNRqO6qiN3EyH


marketing: from fear to belonging
